To David Hunter
Washington, Oct. 24, 1861
Sir: The command of the Department of the West having devolved upon you, I propose to offer you a few suggestions , knowing how hazzardous it is to bind down a distant commander in the field to specific lines and operations, as so much always depends on a knowledge of localities & passing events. It is intended therefore, to leave a considerable margin for the exercise of your judgment & discretion. The main rebel army (Prices)  west of the Mississippi, is believed to have passed Dade county, in full retreat upon North-Western Arkansas, leaving Missouri almost freed from the enemy, excepting in the South-East of the State. Assuming this basis of fact, it seems desireable, as you are not likely to overtake Price, and are in danger of making too long a line from your own base of supplies and reinforcements, that you should give up the pursuit, halt your main army, divide it into two corps of observation, one occupying Sedalia, and the other Rolla, the present termini of Railroads; then recruit the condition of both corps, by re-establishing, and improving, their discipline and instruction; perfecting their clothing and equipments, and providing less uncomfortable quarters. Of course both Railroads must be guarded, and kept open, judiciously employing just so much force as is necessary for this. From these two points, Sedalia and Rolla, and especially in judicious co-operation with Lane on the Kansas border, it would be so easy to concentrate, and repel any army of the enemy returning on Missouri from the South-West, that it is not probable any such attempt to return will be made before, or during, the approaching cold weather. Before spring the people of Missouri will be in no favorable mood to renew, for next year, the troubles which have so much afflicted, and impoverished them during this. If you adopt this line of policy, and if, as I anticipate, you will see no enemy in great force approaching, you will have a surplus of force, which you can withdraw from these points and direct to others, as may be needed, the railroads furnishing ready means of re-inforcing these main points, if occasion requires. Doubtless local uprisings, for a time, will continue to occur; but these can be met by detachments, and local forces of our own, and will, ere long, tire out of themselves. While, as stated at the beginning of this letter, a large discretion must be, and is, left with yourself, I feel sure that an indefinite pursuit of Price, or an attempt, by this long and circuitous route, to reach Memphis, will be exhaustive beyond endurance, and will end in the loss of the whole force engaged in it. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN. To the Commander of the Department of the West.

To Caleb B. Smith
October 24, 1861
The within letter of the Secretary of the Navy, is written concerning the proposed contract with my indorsement thereon which is herewith inclosed. After it was written a promise was obtained from me that I would submit it to the Secretary of the Interior, asking him, if he could spare the time, to form a definite opinion whether such a contract can legally, and ought to be made. Oct. 24, 1861. A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
October 25, 1861
I have no doubt that the gentlemen named within, are true and faithful; and that their mission of charity is most worthy, and praiseworthy. A. LINCOLN Oct. 25. 1861.

Memorandum: Letter of Samuel T. Glover

I have not had time to read this. Please read & return it. Oct. 25. 1861 A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for a Pass
October 25, 1861
The loyalty of Mr. Larrabee, as seen within, is vouched by Gov. Hicks. He wishes a pass for himself and driver, to cross and recross the Potomac, taking oysters to our camps. I think he should have the pass. A. LINCOLN Oct. 25, 1861.

To Simon Cameron
October 26, 1861
Mr. Brown, named within, says a Mr. Hill  of Toledo Ohio, was appointed a Major in one of the new regular regiments, & resigned, thus making a vacancy, which is not yet filled. He wishes the place, & I have no objection, believing him to be a worthy gentleman. A. LINCOLN Oct. 26. 1861

To Simon Cameron

Sec. of War, please see the bearer, nephew of Hon. John M. Botts. Oct. 26. 1861. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major. Gen. McClellan Executive Mansion My dear Sir Oct. 26. 1861
A battery of repeating guns, on wheels, can be seen at the Arsenal any hour to-day. Could you, without inconvenience, see them at 3. or 4. o clock---please answer. Yours A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion My dear Sir Oct. 26. 1861.
This will introduce Judge A. D. Russell, of New-York, who comes to me with a very kind letter of introduction from Mr. Bennett of the Herald. Please give him a kind reception. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Authorization for thePembroke
[October 28, 1861]
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America To all whom these presents may concern Greeting: Know Ye, that, whereas, by the first section of the Act of Congress approved the 5th. of August last, entitled ``An Act supplementary, to an Act entitled `An act to protect the commerce of the United States, and Punish the Crime of Piracy,''' it is enacted ``That any vessel or boat which shall be built, purchased, fitted out in whole or in part, or held for the purpose of being employed in the commission of any piratical aggression, search, restraint, depredation, or seizure, or in the commission of any other act of piracy, as defined by the law of nations, shall be liable to be captured and brought into any port of the United States if found upon the high seas, or to be seized if found in any port or place within the United States, whether the same shall have actually sailed upon any piratical expedition or not, and whether any act of piracy shall have been committed or attempted upon or from such vessel or boat or not; and any such vessel or boat may be adjudged and condemned, if captured by a vessel authorized as herein after mentioned, to the use of the United States and to that of the captors, and if seized by a collector, surveyor, or marshal, then to the use of the United States, after due process and trial, in like manner as is provided in section four of the act to which this act is supplementary, which section is hereby made in all respects applicable to cases arising under this act.'' And whereas by the second section of the same Act, the President of the United States is authorized to instruct the commander of any suitable vessel to subdue, seize, take, and, if on the high seas, to send into any port of the United States any vessel or boat, built, purchased, fitted out or held as in the said first section mentioned: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, in pursuance of the authority thus in me vested, do hereby authorize the propeller Pembroke, owned by R. B. Forbes of Boston and commanded by to take any vessel or boat, built, purchased or fitted out as aforesaid, and for so doing, this shall be his warrant. [L.S.] Given under my hand and the seal of the United States at Washington this twenty-eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty one, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-sixth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN. WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Simon Cameron
Executive Mansion, Oct. 28, 1861.
I have not sufficient time to study and mature an opinion on this plan. If the Secretary of War has confidence in it, and is satisfied to adopt it, I have no objections. A. LINCOLN.

To Simon Cameron
Wampole .
Will Gen. Cameron please find something for Col. Wampole? The within papers are ample & excellent. A. LINCOLN Oct. 28. 1861

To Samuel R. Curtis
Executive Mansion, Brigadier General S. R. Curtis. Washington, Oct. 28. 1861.
My dear Sir. Herewith is a document, half letter, half order, which, wishing you to see , but not to make public I send unsealed. Please read it, and then inclose it to the officer who may be in command of the Department of the West, at the time it reaches him. I can not now know whether Fremont, or Hunter will then be in command. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Resolutions of United Presbyterian Synod

To be presented to the Cabinet next Tuesday. Pres. Genl. Ass. Oct. 28, 1861.

To Simon Cameron
October 29, 1861
I wish a point strained to have Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson obliged by the appointment of James L. Cramer to a Paymastership. Although Mr. Cramer's name is not in this letter, it nevertheless, was given Mr. Paine, to procure Mr. Cramer's appointment. Oct. 29. 1861 A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron

Sec. of War, please see Mr. King & Mr. Paine. Oct. 29, 1861 A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
October 29, 1861
If the Consul at Jerusalem has resigned (as I believe he has) let Hon. Mr. Dunn of Indiana, be obliged by the appointment of Josiah S. Weyer, of Ia. to the the [ sic ] place. A. LINCOLN Oct 29. 1861.

To William H. Seward

Sec. of State, please see this lady. She wishes the bond may be several & not joint. I think it might be so. A. LINCOLN Oct. 29, 1861.

To F. M. Magrath
Executive Mansion Rev. F. M. Magrath Washington, D.C. October 30, 1861.
Sir: Having been solicited by Christian Ministers, and other pious people, to appoint suitable persons to act as Chaplains at the hospitals for our sick and wounded soldiers, and feeling the intrinsic propriety of having such persons to so act, and yet believing there is no law conferring the power upon me to appoint them, I think fit to say that if you will voluntarily enter upon, and perform the appropriate duties of such position, I will recommend that Congress make compensation therefor at the same rate as Chaplains in the army are compensated. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum: Answer to Ebenezer White
[c. October 30, 1861]
I am to examine this & have Mr. Hay write the writer.

To George D. Ramsay

If the gentlemen bearing this are, as they say, workmen in the line of work at the Arsenal, I think Major Ramsay better employ them. Oct. 31. 1861 A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Daniel P. Abercrombie
[November, 1861?]
Very high recommendations for Daniel P. Abercrombie to be a Cadet. Mr. Train  of Mass. introduces the boy & mother, the latter being very anxious for the appointment.

To George B. McClellan
Private . Major General Geo. B. McClellan Executive Mansion My dear Sir Nov. 1. 1861
Lieut. Genl. Scott having been, upon his own application, placed on the list of retired officers, with his advice, and the concurrence of the entire cabinet, I have designated you to command the whole Army. You will, therefore, assume this enlarged duty at once, conferring with me so far as necessary. Yours truly A. LINCOLN P.S. For the present, let Gen. Wool's command be excepted  A L

Order Retiring Winfield Scott from Command
Executive Mansion, Washington, November 1, 1861.
On the 1st day of November, A.D. 1861, upon his own application to the President of the United States, Brevet Lieutenant General Winfield Scott is ordered to be placed, and hereby is placed, upon the list of retired officers of the Army of the United States, without reduction in his current pay, subsistence, or allowances. The American people will hear with sadness and deep emotion that General Scott has withdrawn from the active control of the army, while the President and a unanimous Cabinet express their own and the nation's sympathy in his personal affliction and their profound sense of the important public services rendered by him to his country during his long and brilliant career, among which will ever be gratefully distinguished his faithful devotion to the Constitution, the Union, and the Flag, when assailed by parricidal rebellion.  ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Remarks to Winfield Scott
November 1, 1861
GENERAL: You will naturally feel solicitude about the gentlemen of your staff, who have rendered you and their country such faithful service. I have taken that subject into consideration. I understand that they go with you to New-York. I shall desire them at their earliest convenience, after their return, to make their wishes known to me. I desire you now, however, to be satisfied that, except the unavoidable privation of your counsel, and society, which they have so long enjoyed, the provision which will be made for them will be such as to render their situation hereafter as agreeable as it has been heretofore.

To Simon Cameron
November 2, 1861
I think any officer who has been dismissed on suspicion of disloyalty, but does not go over to the enemy, continuing to protest his loyalty, entitles himself to a hearing, and I hope this case will be enquired into. A. LINCOLN Nov. 2, 1861.

To Simon Cameron

If the within request can be consistently granted, I shall be very glad for it to be done. A. LINCOLN Nov. 2. 1861

To Simon Cameron
November 2, 1861
If the appointment within recommended, can be made, without interfering, with the appointment of Buchanan, already recommended by Gen'l Scott, let it be done.

Memorandum
[November 2, 1861?]
Moving the guns---Sickles--- New-Department, Lane. Missouri---Strong Missouri---Gamble. Harbor defences.

To William H. Seward
November 2, 1861
As this recommendation is made by Bishops Janes & Simpson, I am anxious an appointment to a Consulship shall be made accordingly, if one can be found. A. LINCOLN Nov. 2, 1861

To Joseph G. Totten
November 2, 1861
If Genl Totten & myself are both alive, and in place in June 1862, & he Genl T. will remind me of it, I then wish to give a Cadetship to a son of Professor Mahan. A LINCOLN Nov 2. 1861

To Gideon Welles
November 2, 1861
This will be handed to you by the daughter of Major Marston of the Marine Corps. She desires to have her father placed on active duty. I shall be glad for her to be obliged if it can consistently be done.

To William K. Strong
(Copy of Ans' sent Nov. 3. 1861)
Gen. McClellan is in command of substantially the whole Army, including the Department of the West A LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
November 4, 1861
Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of War, with the suggestion that it be laid before the Engineer and Ordnance bureaus, respectively, for examination and report. A. LINCOLN. November 4, 1861

To Oliver P. Morton

With the consent of Gov. Morton I concur with the suggestion of the Sec. of War. A. LINCOLN Nov. 4. 1861

To Samuel R. Curtis
November 5, 1861
What has been done in the matter sent you by Mr. Swett?

To James Guthrie, George D. Prentice, and James Speed
James Guthrie Head-Quarters, G. D. Prentice & James Speed. Army of the Potomac, Jeffersonville, Indiana. Washington, Nov. 5. 1861.
How near to Louisville is Buckner? Is he moving towards Louisville? Has he crossed Green River? Is the bridge over Green River repaired? Can he cross Green River in face of McCook? If he were on the North side of Green River, how long could McCook hold him out of Louisville, holding the railroad with power to destroy it inch by inch? A. LINCOLN

Memorandum: Appointment of Charles Devens
November 5, 1861
To-day, Nov. 5, 1861, Mr. James Lawrence, Dr. Russell, and Attorney General, Foster, call, and two of them recommend that Col. Charles Devens be made a Brigadier General.

Endorsement: Petition for Formation of a District of Columbia Regiment

I join Gen. McClellan in the above recommendation. Nov. 6, 1861 A. LINCOLN

Order Approving the Plan of Governor Gamble of Missouri
November 6, 1861
This plan, approved with the modification that the Governor stipulates that when he commissions a major-general of militia it shall be the same person at the time in command of the United States Department of the West, and in case the United States shall change such commander of the department, he, the Governor, will revoke the State commission given to the person relieved, and give one to the person substituted to the United States command of said department. A. LINCOLN.

To Simon Cameron
November 7, 1861
Secretary of War, please see Dr. Boyd Pendleton of Va. and, if you can, let him be examined at once to be a Brigade Surgeon. I very much wish to appoint him at once. A. LINCOLN Nov. 7, 1861.

To William H. Seward
[November 7, 1861]
All right A.L.

To Simon Cameron
November 8, 1861
Respectfully submitted to the War Department, with the request that it be remembered as a recommendation from Gov. Morton. A. LINCOLN.

Reply to Edward Count Piper
November 8, 1861.
SIR: I receive with great pleasure a Minister from Sweden. That pleasure was enhanced by the information which preceded your arrival here, that his Majesty, your sovereign, had selected you to fill the mission upon the grounds of your derivation from an ancestral stock, identified with the most glorious era in your country's noble history, and your own eminent social and political standing in Sweden. This country, Sir, maintains, and means to maintain, the rights of human nature and the capacity of man for self-government. The history of Sweden proves that this is the faith of the people of Sweden, as we know that it is the faith and practice of their respected Sovereign. Rest assured, therefore, that we shall be found always just and fraternal in our transactions with your Government, and that nothing will be omitted on my part to make your residence in this capital agreeable to yourself and satisfactory to your Government.

To James W. Ripley
Gen: Ripley Executive Mansion Sir Nov. 8. 1861.
Please see Gov. Wood and Mr. Woodruff, bearers of this, and make the arrangements for arms which they desire if you possibly can. Do not turn them away lightly; but either provide for their getting the arms, or write me a clear reason why you can not. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Richard C. Vaughan

The head of any Department, or Bureau, will oblige me, by obliging Attorney General Bates in the matter mentioned within. Nov. 9, 1861. A. LINCOLN.

To Jose Joaquin Perez
November 9, 1861
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, To His Excellency Jose Joaquin Perez, President of the Republic of Chile. Great and Good Friend: I have received the autograph letter of your Excellency dated the 24th. September last apprizing me of your elevation to the Supreme Magistracy of the Republic by the vote of the Chilean nation, and assuring me of your Excellency's best disposition to increase and strengthen the friendly and fraternal relations so happily subsisting between our respective countries. I offer my sincere congratulations to your Excellency upon the event which you have communicated to me, and I am happy to believe that the sentiments which inspire your Excellency and which the Government and people of the United States cordially reciprocate cannot fail to be productive of the largest benefits to your own Nation, while they will promote the best understanding and harmony with others. Accept my best wishes for your Excellency's personal happiness, with the assurances of my profound interest in the welfare and prosperity of the Chilean Nation. May God have your Excellency always in His safe and holy keeping. Written at the City of Washington the ninth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Simon Cameron
[c. November 10, 1861]
Mr. Bingham has not been much obliged by appointments; so that I think the first PayMaster hereafter appointed in Ohio should be his man, named within. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
November 10, 1861
Gen: McClellan, please see Hon: Mr. Washburne, M.C. who has been on an investigating committee at St. Louis, for sixteen days recently, & can really give more accurate & fuller information on material matters there, than any one I have seen. Nov. 10, 1861. A. LINCOLN

To John A. McClernand
Brigadier General McClernand Washington. Nov. 10. 1861
My Dear Sir This is not an official but a social letter. You have had a battle, and without being able to judge as to the precise measure of its value, I think it is safe to say that you, and all with you have done honor to yourselves and the flag and service to the country. Most gratefully do I thank you and them. In my present position, I must care for the whole nation; but I hope it will be no injustice to any other state, for me to indulge a little home pride, that Illinois does not disappoint us. I have just closed a long interview with Mr. Washburne in which he has detailed the many difficulties you, and those with you labor under. Be assured, we do not forget or neglect you. Much, very much, goes undone: but it is because we have not the power to do it faster than we do. Some of your forces are without arms, but the same is true here, and at every other place where we have considerable bodies of troops. The plain matter-of-fact is, our good people have rushed to the rescue of the Government, faster than the government can find arms to put into their hands. It would be agreeable to each division of the army to know its own precise destination: but the Government cannot immediately, nor inflexibly at any time, determine as to all; nor if determined, can it tell its friends without at the same time telling its enemies . We know you do all as wisely and well as you can; and you will not be deceived if you conclude the same is true of us. Please give my respects and thanks to all Yours very truly A LINCOLN.

To Simon Cameron

Sec. of War, please see Mrs. Major Oakes. A. LINCOLN Nov. 11. 1861.

To John A. Dahlgren

Capt. Dahlgren, please see the bearer, and learn if you have any thing for him to do He is well vouched as an honest, & business man. A. LINCOLN Nov. 11. 1861

Appointment of Delano T. Smith
Washington November 12th. 1861
Delano T. Smith, is hereby appointed to discharge the duties of Third Auditor of the Treasury, during the absence of Robert J. Atkinson. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Hon. Joseph Holt Washington, D.C. My dear Sir: Nov. 12. 1861
Yours of the 2nd., written at Louisville, never reached me till yesterday, and Gen McClellan had already so nearly completed his plans for the Departments of the West, and of the Cumberland, that I could scarcely ask him to re-arrange them. Halleck goes to St. Louis, and Buell goes to Louisville.  Sherman's wishes are being consulted, & I hope & believe he will be placed not unsatisfactorily to himself.  You are not mistaken in supposing I am gratified extremely by the excellent conduct of your general at Camp Wildcat. You have with you my good friend Judge David Davis; and allow [me] to assure you, you were never associated with a better man. Please present him my respects. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

Appointment of George Harrington
November 13, 1861
George Harrington, is hereby appointed to discharge the duty of Secretary of the Treasury, during the absence of Salmon P. Chase, from Washington. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, November 13, 1861.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion My dear Sir Nov. 13. 1861.
Please have the Adjutant General ascertain whether 2nd. Lieut. of Co. D. 2nd. Infantry---Alexander E. Drake, is not entitled to promotion. His wife thinks he is. Please have this looked into. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Nov. 13. 1861
This will be presented by Hon. Charles S. Todd, of Ky, a gentleman of high standing, as you will remember, and distantly related to Mrs. L. He was once ``Charge de affaires'' at Bogota, and once Minister to Russia. He will present strong recommendations from Kentuckians; and I hope you will, if possible, find some employment for him, in which he can help in our present troubles. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Sec. of Navy, please see Mr. Redfield A. LINCOLN Nov. 13, 1861

To Simon Cameron

War Department, please preserve this dispatch, and answer it. Nov. 14. 1861. A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
November 14, 1861
I have no recollection of authorizing Gen. Anderson to appoint commissaries---think I did not---yet I should strongly incline to ratify acts of Gen. Anderson, when I shall know them to be his Nov. 14, 1861 A. LINCOLN

Reply to Delegation of Baltimore Citizens
November 15, 1861
GENTLEMEN: I thank you for the address you have presented to me in behalf of the people of Baltimore. I have deplored the calamities which the sympathies of some misguided citizens of Maryland had brought down upon that patriotic and heretofore flourishing State. The prosperity of Baltimore up to the 19th of April last, was one of the wonders produced by the American Union. He who strangles himself, for whatever motive, is not more unreasonable than were those citizens of Baltimore who, in a single night, destroyed the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, the Northern Pennsylvania Railroad, and the railroad from Baltimore to Philadelphia. From the day when that mad transaction occurred, the Government of the United States has been diligently engaged in endeavoring to restore those great avenues to their former usefulness, and, at the same time, to save Baltimore and Maryland from the danger of complete ruin through an unnecessary and unnatural rebellion. I congratulate you upon the declaration which the people of Baltimore and Maryland have made in the recent election, of their recent approbation of the Federal Government, and of their enduring loyalty to the Union. I regard the results of these elections as auspicious of returning loyalty throughout all the insurrectionary States. Your wishes for a fair participation by the mechanics and laboring men of Baltimore in the benefits of supplying the Government with materials and provisions are reasonable and just. They have deserved that participation. Loyalty has involved them in some danger, and has demanded of them some sacrifices. Their wishes, as you have communicated them, shall be referred to the proper Departments, and I am sure that every member of the Administration will cheerfully lend his aid to carry them out so far as it can be done consistently with the prudence and economy which ought always to regulate the public service.

To Simon Cameron

Sec. of War, please see Mr. Darling, who was a Presidential elector last year in New-York. A. LINCOLN Nov. 16. 1861

To Simon Cameron
November 16, 1861
The appointment of Mr. W. W. Leland, is desired by the Irish Brigade, including much of the elements of the late 69th. & of Col. Mulligan's regiment. If it is possible to oblige them in this, let it be done. A. LINCOLN Nov. 16. 1861.

To Lorenzo Thomas
Adjutant General Executive Mansion, Sir: Nov. 16, 1861
Lieut. John Watt who, I believe, has been detailed to do service about the White-House, is not needed for that purpose, and you assign him to his proper place in Regiment. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To George Bancroft
Executive Mansion, Washington, Nov 18, 1861.
My dear Sir: I esteem it a high honor to have received a note from Mr. Bancroft, inclosing the report of proceedings of a New York meeting, taking measures for the relief of Union people of North Carolina. I thank you, and all others participating, for this benevolent and patriotic movement. The main thought in the closing paragraph of your letter is one which does not escape my attention, and with which I must deal in all due caution, and with the best judgment I can bring to it. Your obt. Servt. [A. LINCOLN.] Hon. Geo. Bancroft.

To Edward Everett
Hon. Edward Everett Washington, My dear Sir: Nov. 18. 1861
Your kind note of the 15th. inclosing a copy of a letter to yourself from Mr. Donnell, is received, and I am greatly obliged for both. There was a gentleman of that name in congress from North-Carolina, when I was a member (from Dec./47 to March/49) but I think this is not the same. His letter, however, is an interesting one, and on a very interesting subject. The items of news coming in last week were all satisfactory, except the very last---the capture of one of our foraging parties across the river from here, on Saturday, consisting of about 50 men. The success at Port-Royal was both splendid and important. The military men are taking what they consider all necessary steps to hold the places taken. And then the capture of Mason & Slidell! Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward

If the Sec. of State can and will find a consulate for Rev. Mr. Carothers, I have no objection & shall even be pleased. Nov. 18. 1861 A. LINCOLN

To Hiram Walbridge
Washington, Gen. H. Walbridge, New-York City. Nov. 18, 1861.
Dear Sir: Your note reminding me of the fact that, as early as April last, you pointed out to me on the map Port Royal and Beaufort as advantageous places to make lodgments on the Southern coast, is received. I am free to confess you were the first who called my attention to that particular locality. I also remember that you insisted we should call six hundred thousand men into the field, a considerable length of time before I had brought my own mind up to anything near so large a scale. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
November 21, 1861.
If General McClellan and General Halleck deem it necessary to declare and maintain martial law at Saint Louis the same is hereby authorized. A. LINCOLN.

To Caleb B. Smith
Hon. Sec. of Interior Executive Mansion My dear Sir Nov. 21, 1861
Can you, by any possibility, find some place for Judge Taft? I shall be greatly obliged if you can & will. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron

Sec. of War, please see Admiral Zerman. Nov. 23. 1861 A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
November 25, 1861
I take the occasion of Gen. Cooper's letter within, to call attention again to Mr. Jones application to enter the Army. I really feel some interest for him. A. LINCOLN Nov. 25. 1861.

To Thomas A. Scott
November 25, 1861
I know I have expected General Keim, upon certain conditions, to be appointed a Brigadier General but I do not remember particulars. If his case is now presented mature, according to the understanding, let him be appointed.

Drafts of a Bill for Compensated Emancipation in Delaware
[November 26? 1861]
[No. 1] Be it enacted by the State of Delaware, that on condition the United States of America will, at the present session of Congress, engage by law to pay, and thereafter faithfully pay to the said State of Delaware, in the six per cent bonds of said United States, the sum of seven hundred and nineteen thousand and two hundred dollars, in five equal annual instalments, there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, at any time after the first day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand, eight hundred and sixtyseven, within the said State of Delaware, except in the punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted: Provided , that said State shall, in good faith prevent, so far as possible, the carrying of any person out of said State, into involuntary servitude, beyond the limits of said State, at any time after the passage of this act; and shall also provide for one fifth of the adult slavery becoming free at the middle of the year one thousand eight hundred an[d] sixtytwo; one fourth of the remainder of said adults, at the middle of the year one thousand eight hundred and sixtythree; one third of the remainder of said adults, at the middle of the year one thousand eight hundred and sixtyfour; one half the remainder of said adults at the middle of the year one thousand eight hundred and sixtyfive; and the entire remainder of adults, together with all minors, at the beginning of the year one thousand eight hundred and sixtyseven, as hereinbefore indicated. And provided also that said State may make provision of apprenticeship, not to extend beyond the age of twenty-one years for males, nor eighteen for females, for all minors whose mothers were not free, at the respective births of such minors. [No. 2] Be it enacted by the State of Delaware that on condition the United States of America will, at the present session of Congress, engage by law to pay, and thereafter faithfully pay to the said State of Delaware, in the six per cent bonds of said United States, the sum of seven hundred and nineteen thousand, and two hundred dollars, in thirty one  equal annual instalments, there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, at any time after the first day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ninety three,  within the said State of Delaware, except in the punishment of crime, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted; nor, except in the punishment of crime as aforesaid, shall any person who shall be born after the passage of this act, nor any person above the age of thirty five years, be held in slavery, or to involuntary servitude, within said State of Delaware, at any time after the passage of this act. And be it further enacted that said State shall, in good faith prevent, so far as possible, the carrying of any person out of said state, into involuntary servitude, beyond the limits of said State, at any time after the passage of this act. And be it further enacted that said State may make provision of apprenticeship, not to extend beyond the age of twentyone years for males, nor eighteen for females, for all minors whose mothers were not free at the respective births of such minors. On reflection, I like No. 2 the better. By it the Nation would pay the State $ 23,200 per annum for thirtyone years--- and All born after the passage of the act would be born free--- and All slaves above the age of 35 years would become free on the passage of the act--- and All others would become free on arriving at the age of 35 years, until January 1893--- when All remaining of all ages would become free, subject to apprenticeship for minors born of slave mothers, up to the respective ages of 21 and 18. If the State would desire to have the money sooner, let the bill be altered only in fixing the time of final emancipation earlier, and making the annual instalments correspondingly fewer in number, by which they would also be correspondingly larger in amount. For instance, strike out ``1893,'' and insert ``1872''; and strike out ``thirtyone'' annual instalments, and insert ``ten'' annual instalments. The instalments would then be $ 71,920 instead of $ 23,200 as now. In all other particulars let the bill stand precisely as it is.

To George B. McClellan

The within is the copy of a letter from Mr. Guthrie, which perhaps it is well for Gen. McClellan to see. A. LINCOLN Nov. 26. 1861

To George B. McClellan
November 27, 1861
If Gen. McClellan thinks it proper to make Buell a Major General, enabling Sherman to return to Kentucky, it would rather please me. As Buell, by the letter shown me to-day, agrees with Mr. Guthrie about half a dozen more Brig. Genls. being needed in Ky, that, also might be attended to at the same time. Nov. 27. 1861. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan

Gen. McClellan, if you think the erection of a foot-bridge over the Potomac, is expedient, please see the bearer. A. LINCOLN Nov. 27, 1861

Memorandum:Advice to Mrs. Stephen A. Douglas
Executive Mansion, Nov. 27--- 1861
Yesterday Mrs. Douglas called, saying she is guardian of the minor children of her late husband; that she is being urged, against her inclination, to send them South, on the plea of avoiding the confiscation of their property there, and asking my counsel in the case. I expect the United States will overcome the attempt to confiscate property, because of loyalty to the government; but if not, I still do not expect the property of absent minor children will be confiscated. I therefore think Mrs. Douglas may safely act her pleasure in the premises. But it is especially dangerous for my name to be connected with the matter; for nothing would more certainly excite the secessionists to do the worst they can against the children.

Order for Day of Thanksgiving
Executive Mansion. Washington, 27th. November, 1861.
The Municipal authorities of Washington and Georgetown in this District, have appointed tomorrow, the 28th. instant, as a day of thanksgiving, the several Department will on that occasion be closed, in order that the officers of the government may partake in the ceremonies. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward

Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of State, with the accompanying recommendation of Senator McDougal. Nov. 27. 1861. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Sec. of Treasury Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Nov. 29. 1861
You remember kindly asking me, some time ago whether I really desired you to find a place for William Johnson, a colored boy who came from Illinois with me. If you can find him the place shall really be obliged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron

Respectfully submitted to the Sec. of War, remarking that it be very agreeable to me for Mr. Fillmore to be obliged. Nov. 30, 1861 A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of Isaac E. Pearson
[December, 1861]
Isaac E. Pearson, of Westminster Md. for West-Point. Will be 18, August 25, 1862.

To Gideon Welles
[c. December, 1861?]
Sec. of Navy please send me the contract (if there is one) with the man who is pretending to build the Engine in the Pensacola. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum to George B. McClellan on Potomac Campaign
[c. December 1, 1861]
If it were determined to make a forward movement of the Army of the Potomac, without awaiting further increase of numbers, or better drill & discipline, how long would it require to actually get in motion?  After leaving all that would be necessary, how many troops could join the movement from South-West of the river?  How many from North-East of it?  Suppose, then, that of those South-West of the river 50,000  move forward and menace the enemy at Centerville. The remainder of the moveable force on that side move rapidly to the crossing of the Ocoquan by the road from Alexandria towards Richmond; there to be joined by the whole moveable force from North-East of the river, having landed from the Potomac just below the mouth of the Ocoquan, moved by land up the South side of that stream to the crossing point named; then the whole move together, by the road thence to Brentsville, and beyond, to the railroad just South of it's crossing of Broad Run, a strong detachment of cavalry having gone rapidly ahead to destroy the railroad bridges South and North of the point. If the crossing of the Ocoquan by those from above be resisted, those landing from the Potomac below to take the resisting force of the enemy in rear; or, if the landing from the Potomac be resisted, those c[r]ossing the Ocoquan from above to take that resisting force in rear. Both points will probably not be successfully resisted at the same time. The force in front of Centreville, if pressed too hardly, should fight back slowly into the intrenchments behind them. Armed vessels and transportation should remain at the Potomac landing to cover a possible retreat.

To Henry W. Halleck
To Major General, Henry W. Halleck, December 2, 1861
Commanding in the Department of Missouri. General: As an insurrection exists in the United States and is in arms in the State of Missouri, you are hereby authorized and empowered to suspend the Writ of Habeas Corpus within the limits of the military division under your command and to exercise martial law as you find it necessary in your discretion to secure the public safety and the authority of the United States. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed at Washington, this second day of December, A d 1861. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

Annual Message to Congress
December 3, 1861
Fellow Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives: In the midst of unprecedented political troubles, we have cause of great gratitude to God for unusual good health, and most abundant harvests. You will not be surprised to learn that, in the peculiar exigencies of the times, our intercourse with foreign nations has been attended with profound solicitude, chiefly turning upon our own domestic affairs. A disloyal portion of the American people have, during the whole year, been engaged in an attempt to divide and destroy the Union. A nation which endures factious domestic division, is exposed to disrespect abroad; and one party, if not both, is sure, sooner or later, to invoke foreign intervention. Nations, thus tempted to interfere, are not always able to resist the counsels of seeming expediency, and ungenerous ambition, although measures adopted under such influences seldom fail to be unfortunate and injurious to those adopting them. The disloyal citizens of the United States who have offered the ruin of our country, in return for the aid and comfort which they have invoked abroad, have received less patronage and encouragement than they probably expected. If it were just to suppose, as the insurgents have seemed to assume, that foreign nations, in this case, discarding all moral, social, and treaty obligations, would act solely, and selfishly, for the most speedy restoration of commerce, including, especially, the acquisition of cotton, those nations appear, as yet, not to have seen their way to their object more directly, or clearly, through the destruction, than through the preservation, of the Union. If we could dare to believe that foreign nations are actuated by no higher principle than this, I am quite sure a sound argument could be made to show them that they can reach their aim more readily, and easily, by aiding to crush this rebellion, than by giving encouragement to it. The principal lever relied on by the insurgents for exciting foreign nations to hostility against us, as already intimated, is the embarrassment of commerce. Those nations, however, not improbably, saw from the first, that it was the Union which made as well our foreign, as our domestic, commerce. They can scarcely have failed to perceive that the effort for disunion produces the existing difficulty; and that one strong nation promises more durable peace, and a more extensive, valuable and reliable commerce, than can the same nation broken into hostile fragments. It is not my purpose to review our discussions with foreign states, because whatever might be their wishes, or dispositions, the integrity of our country, and the stability of our government, mainly depend, not upon them, but on the loyalty, virtue, patriotism, and intelligence of the American people. The correspondence itself, with the usual reservations, is herewith submitted  . I venture to hope it will appear that we have practiced prudence, and liberality towards foreign powers, averting causes of irritation; and, with firmness, maintaining our own rights and honor. Since, however, it is apparent that here, as in every other state, foreign dangers necessarily attend domestic difficulties, I recommend that adequate and ample measures be adopted for maintaining the public defences on every side. While, under this general recommendation, provision for defending our sea-coast line readily occurs to the mind, I also, in the same connexion, ask the attention of Congress to our great lakes and rivers. It is believed that some fortifications and depots of arms and munitions, with harbor and navigation improvements, all at well selected points upon these, would be of great importance to the national defence and preservation. I ask attention to the views of the Secretary of War, expressed in his report,  upon the same general subject. I deem it of Importance that the loyal regions of East Tennessee and western North Carolina should be connected with Kentucky, and other faithful parts of the Union, by railroad. I therefore recommend, as a military measure, that Congress provide for the construction of such road, as speedily as possible. Kentucky, no doubt, will co-operate, and, through her legislature, make the most judicious selection of a line. The northern terminus must connect with some existing railroad; and whether the route shall be from Lexington, or Nicholasville, to the Cumberland Gap; or from Lebanon to the Tennessee line, in the direction of Knoxville; or on some still different line, can easily be determined. Kentucky and the general government co-operating, the work can be completed in a very short time; and when done, it will be not only of vast present usefulness, but also a valuable permanent improvement, worth its cost in all the future. Some treaties, designed chiefly for the interests of commerce, and having no grave political importance, have been negotiated, and will be submitted to the Senate for their consideration. Although we have failed to induce some of the commercial powers to adopt a desirable melioration of the rigor of maritime war, we have removed all obstructions from the way of this humane reform, except such as are merely of temporary and accidental occurrence. I invite your attention to the correspondence between her Britannic Majesty's minister accredited to this government, and the Secretary of State, relative to the detention of the British ship Perthshire in June last, by the United States steamer Massachusetts, for a supposed breach of the blockade.  As this detention was occasioned by an obvious misapprehension of the facts, and as justice requires that we should commit no belligerent act not founded in strict right, as sanctioned by public law, I recommend that an appropriation be made to satisfy the reasonable demand of the owners of the vessel for her detention. I repeat the recommendation of my predecessor, in his annual message to Congress in December last, in regard to the disposition of the surplus which will probably remain after satisfying the claims of American citizens against China, pursuant to the awards of the commissioners under the act of the 3rd of March, 1859.  If, however, it should not be deemed advisable to carry that recommendation into effect, I would suggest that authority be given for investing the principal, over the proceeds of the surplus referred to, in good securities, with a view to the satisfaction of such other just claims of our citizens against China as are not unlikely to arise hereafter in the course of our extensive trade with that Empire. By the act of the 5th of August last, Congress authorized the President to instruct the commanders of suitable vessels to defend themselves against, and to capture pirates. This authority has been exercised in a single instance only.  For the more effectual protection of our extensive and valuable commerce, in the eastern seas especially, it seems to me that it would also be advisable to authorize the commanders of sailing vessels to re-capture any prizes which pirates might make of United States vessels and their cargoes, and the consular courts, now established by law in eastern countries, to adjudicate the cases, in the event that this should not be objected to by the local authorities. If any good reason exists why we should persevere longer in withholding our recognition of the independence and sovereignty of Hayti and Liberia, I am unable to discern it. Unwilling, however, to inaugurate a novel policy in regard to them without the approbation of Congress, I submit for your consideration the expediency of an appropriation for maintaining a Charge d'affaires near each of those new states. It is [ sic ] does not admit of doubt that important commercial advantages might be secured by favorable commercial treaties with them.  The operations of the treasury during the period which has elapsed since your adjournment have been conducted with signal success. The patriotism of the people has placed at the disposal of the government the large means demanded by the public exigencies. Much of the national loan has been taken by citizens of the industrial classes, whose confidence in their country's faith, and zeal for their country's deliverance from present peril, have induced them to contribute to the support of the government the whole of their limited acquisitions. This fact imposes peculiar obligations to economy in disbursement and energy in action. The revenue from all sources, including loans, for the financial year ending on the 30th June, 1861, was eighty six million, eight hundred and thirty five thousand, nine hundred dollars, and twenty seven cents, ($86,835,900.27,) and the expenditures for the same period, including payments on account of the public debt, were eighty four million, five hundred and seventy eight thousand, eight hundred and thirty four dollars and forty seven cents, ($84,578,834.47;) leaving a balance in the treasury, on the 1st July, of two million, two hundred and fifty seven thousand, sixty five dollars and eighty cents, ($2,257,065.80.) For the first quarter of the financial year, ending on the 30th September, 1861, the receipts from all sources, including the balance of first of July, were  $102,532,509.27, and the expenses $98,239,733.09; leaving a balance on the 1st of October, 1861, of $4,292,776.18. Estimates for the remaining three quarters of the year, and for the financial year 1863, together with his views of ways and means for meeting the demands contemplated by them, will be submitted to Congress by the Secretary of the Treasury. It is gratifying to know that the expenditures made necessary by the rebellion are not beyond the resources of the loyal people, and to believe that the same patriotism which has thus far sustained the government will continue to sustain it till Peace and Union shall again bless the land. I respectfully refer to the report of the Secretary of War for information respecting the numerical strength of the army, and for recommendations having in view an increase of its efficiency and the well being of the various branches of the service intrusted to his care.  It is gratifying to know that the patriotism of the people has proved equal to the occasion, and that the number of troops tendered greatly exceeds the force which Congress authorized me to call into the field. I refer with pleasure to those portions of his report which make allusion to the creditable degree of discipline already attained by our troops, and to the excellent sanitary condition of the entire army. The recommendation of the Secretary for an organization of the militia upon a uniform basis, is a subject of vital importance to the future safety of the country, and is commended to the serious attention of Congress. The large addition to the regular army, in connexion with the defection that has so considerably diminished the number of its officers, gives peculiar importance to his recommendation for increasing the corps of cadets to the greatest capacity of the Military Academy. By mere omission, I presume, Congress has failed to provide chaplains for hospitals occupied by volunteers. This subject was brought to my notice, and I was induced to draw up the form of a letter, one copy of which, properly addressed, has been delivered to each of the persons, and at the dates respectively named and stated, in a schedule, containing also the form of the letter, marked A, and herewith transmitted.  These gentlemen, I understand, entered upon the duties designated, at the times respectively stated in the schedule, and have labored faithfully therein ever since. I therefore recommend that they be compensated at the same rate as chaplains in the army. I further suggest that general provision be made for chaplains to serve at hospitals, as well as with regiments. The report of the Secretary of the Navy  presents in detail the operations of that branch of the service, the activity and energy which have characterized its administration, and the results of measures to increase its efficiency and power. Such have been the additions, by construction and purchase, that it may almost be said a navy has been created and brought into service since our difficulties commenced. Besides blockading our extensive coast, squadrons larger than ever before assembled under our flag have been put afloat and performed deeds which have increased our naval renown. I would invite special attention to the recommendation of the Secretary for a more perfect organization of the navy by introducing additional grades in the service. The present organization is defective and unsatisfactory, and the suggestions submitted by the department will, it is believed, if adopted, obviate the difficulties alluded to, promote harmony, and increase the efficiency of the navy. There are three vacancies on the bench of the Supreme Court---two by the decease of Justices Daniel and McLean, and one by the resignation of Justice Campbell. I have so far forborne making nominations to fill these vacancies for reasons which I will now state. Two of the outgoing judges resided within the States now overrun by revolt; so that if successors were appointed in the same localities, they could not now serve upon their circuits; and many of the most competent men there, probably would not take the personal hazard of accepting to serve, even here, upon the supreme bench. I have been unwilling to throw all the appointments northward, thus disabling myself from doing justice to the south on the return of peace; although I may remark that to transfer to the north one which has heretofore been in the south, would not, with reference to territory and population, be unjust. During the long and brilliant judicial career of Judge McLean his circuit grew into an empire---altogether too large for any one judge to give the courts therein more than a nominal attendance---rising in population from one million four hundred and seventy-thousand and eighteen, in 1830, to six million one hundred and fifty-one thousand four hundred and five, in 1860. Besides this, the country generally has outgrown our present judicial system. If uniformity was  at all intended, the system requires that all the States shall be accommodated with circuit courts, attended by supreme judges, while, in fact, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, Florida, Texas, California, and Oregon, have never had any such courts. Nor can this well be remedied without a change of the system; because the adding of judges to the Supreme Court, enough for the accommodation of all parts of the country, with circuit courts, would create a court altogether too numerous for a judicial body of any sort. And the evil, if it be one, will increase as new States come into the Union. Circuit courts are useful, or they are not useful. If useful, no State should be denied them; if not useful, no State should have them. Let them be provided for all, or abolished as to all. Three modifications occur to me, either of which, I think, would be an improvement upon our present system. Let the Supreme Court be of convenient number in every event. Then, first, let the whole country be divided into circuits of convenient size, the supreme judges to serve in a number of them corresponding to their own number, and independent circuit judges be provided for all the rest. Or, secondly, let the supreme judges be relieved from circuit duties, and circuit judges provided for all the circuits. Or, thirdly, dispense with circuit courts altogether, leaving the judicial functions wholly to the district courts and an independent Supreme Court.  I respectfully recommend to the consideration of Congress the present condition of the statute laws, with the hope that Congress will be able to find an easy remedy for many of the inconveniences and evils which constantly embarrass those engaged in the practical administration of them. Since the organization of the government, Congress has enacted some five thousand acts and joint resolutions, which fill more than six thousand closely printed pages, and are scattered through many volumes. Many of these acts have been drawn in haste and without sufficient caution, so that their provisions are often obscure in themselves, or in conflict with each other, or at least so doubtful as to render it very difficult for even the best informed persons to ascertain precisely what the statute law really is. It seems to me very important that the statute laws should be made as plain and intelligible as possible, and be reduced to as small a compass as may consist with the fullness and precision of the will of the legislature and the perspicuity of its language. This, well done, would, I think, greatly facilitate the labors of those whose duty it is to assist in the administration of the laws, and would be a lasting benefit to the people, by placing before them, in a more accessible and intelligible form, the laws which so deeply concern their interests and their duties. I am informed by some whose opinions I respect, that all the acts of Congress now in force, and of a permanent and general nature, might be revised and re-written, so as to be embraced in one volume (or at most, two volumes) of ordinary and convenient size. And I respectfully recommend to Congress to consider of the subject, and, if my suggestion be approved, to devise such plan as to their wisdom shall seem most proper for the attainment of the end proposed.  One of the unavoidable consequences of the present insurrection is the entire suppression, in many places, of all the ordinary means of administering civil justice by the officers and in the forms of existing law. This is the case, in whole or in part, in all the insurgent States; and as our armies advance upon and take possession of parts of those States, the practical evil becomes more apparent. There are no courts nor officers to whom the citizens of other States may apply for the enforcement of their lawful claims against citizens of the insurgent States; and there is a vast amount of debt constituting such claims. Some have estimated it as high as two hundred million dollars, due, in large part, from insurgents, in open rebellion, to loyal citizens who are, even now, making great sacrifices in the discharge of their patriotic duty to support the government. Under these circumstances, I have been urgently solicited to establish, by military power, courts to administer summary justice in such cases. I have thus far declined to do it, not because I had any doubt that the end proposed---the collection of the debts---was just and right in itself, but because I have been unwilling to go beyond the pressure of necessity in the unusual exercise of power. But the powers of Congress I suppose are equal to the anomalous occasion, and therefore I refer the whole matter to Congress, with the hope that a plan may be devised for the administration of justice in all such parts of the insurgent States and Territories as may be under the control of this government, whether by a voluntary return to allegiance and order or by the power of our arms. This, however, not to be a permanent institution, but a temporary substitute, and to cease as soon as the ordinary courts can be re-established in peace. It is important that some more convenient means should be provided, if possible, for the adjustment of claims against the government, especially in view of their increased number by reason of the war. It is as much the duty of government to render prompt justice against itself, in favor of citizens, as it is to administer the same, between private individuals. The investigation and adjudication of claims, in their nature belong to the judicial  department; besides it is apparent that the attention of Congress, will be more than usually engaged, for some time to come, with great national questions. It was intended, by the organization of the court of claims, mainly to remove this branch of business from the halls of Congress; but while the court has proved to be an effective, and valuable means of investigation, it in great degree fails to effect the object of its creation, for want of power to make its judgments final. Fully aware of the delicacy, not to say the danger, of the subject, I commend to your careful consideration whether this power of making judgments final, may not properly be given to the court, reserving the right of appeal on questions of law to the Supreme Court, with such other provisions as experience may have shown to be necessary.  I ask attention to the report of the Postmaster General, the following being a summary statement of the condition of the department: The  revenue from all sources during the fiscal year ending June 30. 1861, including the annual permanent appropriation of seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000) for the transportation of ``free mail matter,'' was nine million, forty nine thousand, two hundred and nin[e]ty six dollars and forty cents ($9,049,296.40) being about two per cent. less than the revenue for 1860. The expenditures were thirteen million, six hundred and six thousand, seven hundred and fifty nine dollars and eleven cents. ($13,606,759.11) showing a decrease of more than eight per cent. as compared with those of the previous year, and leaving an excess of expenditure over the revenue for the last fiscal year of four million, five hundred and fifty seven thousand, four hundred and sixty two dollars and seventy one cents ($4,557,462.71.) The gross revenue for the year ending June 30, 1863, is estimated at an increase of four per cent. on that of 1861, making eight million, six hundred and eighty three thousand dollars ($8,683,000) to which should be added the earnings of the department in carrying free matter, viz: seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000.) making nine million, three hundred and eighty three thousand dollars, ($9,383,000.) The total expenditures for 1863 are estimated at $12,528,000, leaving an estimated deficiency of $3,145,000, to be supplied from the treasury, in addition to the permanent appropriation. The present insurrection shows, I think, that the extension of this District across the Potomac river, at the time of establishing the capital here, was eminently wise, and consequently that the relinquishment of that portion of it which lies within the State of Virginia was unwise and dangerous. I submit for your consideration the expediency of regaining that part of the District, and the restoration of the original boundaries thereof, through negotiations with the State of Virginia.  The report of the Secretary of the Interior,  with the accompanying documents, exhibits the condition of the several branches of the public business pertaining to that department. The depressing influences of the insurrection have been especially felt in the operations of the Patent and General Land Offices. The cash receipts from the sales of public lands during the past year have exceeded the expenses of our land system only about $200,000. The sales have been entirely suspended in the southern States, while the interruptions to the business of the country, and the diversion of large numbers of men from labor to military service, have obstructed settlements in the new States and Territories of the northwest. The receipts of the Patent Office have declined in nine months about $100,000, rendering a large reduction of the force employed necessary to make it self sustaining. The demands upon the Pension Office will be largely increased by the insurrection. Numerous applications for pensions, based upon the casualties of the existing war, have already been made. There is reason to believe that many who are now upon the pension rolls and in receipt of the bounty of the government, are in the ranks of the insurgent army, or giving them aid and comfort. The Secretary of the Interior has directed a suspension of the payment of the pensions of such persons upon proof of their disloyalty. I recommend that Congress authorize that officer to cause the names of such persons to be stricken from the pension rolls. The relations of the government with the Indian tribes have been greatly disturbed by the insurrection, especially in the southern superintendency and in that of New Mexico. The Indian country south of Kansas is in the possession of insurgents from Texas and Arkansas. The agents of the United States appointed since the 4th. of March for this superintendency have been unable to reach their posts, while the most of those who were in office before that time have espoused the insurrectionary cause, and assume to exercise the powers of agents by virtue of commissions from the insurrectionists. It has been stated in the public press that a portion of those Indians have been organized as a military force, and are attached to the army of the insurgents. Although the government has no official information upon this subject, letters have been written to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs by several prominent chiefs, giving assurance of their loyalty to the United States, and expressing a wish for the presence of federal troops to protect them. It is believed that upon the repossession of the country by the federal forces the Indians will readily cease all hostile demonstrations, and resume their former relations to the government. Agriculture, confessedly the largest interest of the nation, has, not a department, nor a bureau, but a clerkship only, assigned to it in the government. While it is fortunate that this great interest is so independent in its nature as to not have demanded and extorted more from the government, I respectfully ask Congress to consider whether something more cannot be given voluntarily with general advantage.  Annual reports exhibiting the condition of our agriculture, commerce, and manufactures would present a fund of information of great practical value to the country. While I make no suggestion as to details, I venture the opinion that an agricultural and statistical bureau might profitably be organized. The execution of the laws for the suppression of the African slave trade, has been confided to the Department of the Interior. It is a subject of gratulation that the efforts which have been made for the suppression of this inhuman traffic, have been recently attended with unusual success. Five vessels being fitted out for the slave trade have been seized and condemned.  Two mates of vessels engaged in the trade, and one person in equipping a vessel as a slaver, have been convicted and subjected to the penalty of fine and imprisonment, and one captain, taken with a cargo of Africans on board his vessel, has been convicted of the highest grade of offence under our laws, the punishment of which is death.  The Territories of Colorado, Dakotah and Nevada, created by the last Congress, have been organized, and civil administration has been inaugurated therein under auspices especially gratifying, when it is considered that the leaven of treason was found existing in some of these new countries when the federal officers arrived there. The abundant natural resources of these Territories, with the security and protection afforded by organized government, will doubtless invite to them a large immigration when peace shall restore the business of the country to its accustomed channels. I submit the resolutions of the legislature of Colorado, which evidence the patriotic spirit of the people of the Territory. So far the authority of the United States has been upheld in all the Territories, as it is hoped it will be in the future. I commend their interests and defence to the enlightened and generous care of Congress. I recommend to the favorable consideration of Congress the interests of the District of Columbia. The insurrection has been the cause of much suffering and sacrifice to its inhabitants, and as they have no representative in Congress, that body should not overlook their just claims upon the government. At your late session a joint resolution was adopted authorizing the President to take measures for facilitating a proper representation of the industrial interests of the United States at the exhibition of the industry of all nations to be holden at London in the year 1862. I regret to say I have been unable to give personal attention to this subject,---a subject at once so interesting in itself, and so extensively and intimately connected with the material prosperity of the world. Through the Secretaries of State and of the Interior a plan, or system, has been devised, and partly matured, and which will be laid before you.  Under and by virtue of the act of Congress entitled ``An act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes,'' approved August, 6, 1861, the legal claims of certain persons to the labor and service of certain other persons have become forfeited; and numbers of the latter, thus liberated, are already dependent on the United States, and must be provided for in some way. Besides this, it is not impossible that some of the States will pass similar enactments for their own benefit respectively, and by operation of which persons of the same class will be thrown upon them for disposal. In such case I recommend that Congress provide for accepting such persons from such States, according to some mode of valuation, in lieu, pro tanto , of direct taxes, or upon some other plan to be agreed on with such States respectively; that such persons, on such acceptance by the general government, be at once deemed free; and that, in any event, steps be taken for colonizing both classes, (or the one first mentioned, if the other shall not be brought into existence,) at some place, or places, in a climate congenial to them. It might be well to consider, too,---whether the free colored people already in the United States could not, so far as individuals may desire, be included in such colonization.  To carry out the plan of colonization may involve the acquiring of territory, and also the appropriation of money beyond that to be expended in the territorial acquisition. Having practiced the acquisition of territory for nearly sixty years, the question of constitutional power to do so is no longer an open one with us. The power was questioned at first by Mr. Jefferson, who, however, in the purchase of Louisiana, yielded his scruples on the plea of great expediency. If it be said that the only legitimate object of acquiring territory is to furnish homes for white men, this measure effects that object; for the emigration of colored men leaves additional room for white men remaining or coming here. Mr. Jefferson, however, placed the importance of procuring Louisiana more on political and commercial grounds than on providing room for population. On this whole proposition,---including the appropriation of money with the acquisition of territory, does not the expediency amount to absolute necessity---that, without which the government itself cannot be perpetuated? The war continues. In considering the policy to be adopted for suppressing the insurrection, I have been anxious and careful that the inevitable conflict for this purpose shall not degenerate into a violent and remorseless revolutionary struggle. I have, therefore, in every case, thought it proper to keep the integrity of the Union prominent as the primary object of the contest on our part, leaving all questions which are not of vital military importance to the more deliberate action of the legislature. In the exercise of my best discretion I have adhered to the blockade of the ports held by the insurgents, instead of putting in force, by proclamation, the law of Congress enacted at the late session, for closing those ports.  So, also, obeying the dictates of prudence, as well as the obligations of law, instead of transcending, I have adhered to the act of Congress to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes. If a new law upon the same subject shall be proposed, its propriety will be duly considered. The Union must be preserved, and hence, all indispensable means must be employed. We should not be in haste to determine that radical and extreme measures, which may reach the loyal as well as the disloyal, are indispensable. The inaugural address at the beginning of the Administration, and the message to Congress at the late special session, were both mainly devoted to the domestic controversy out of which the insurrection and consequent war have sprung. Nothing now occurs to add or subtract, to or from, the principles or general purposes stated and expressed in those documents. The last ray of hope for preserving the Union peaceably, expired at the assault upon Fort Sumter; and a general review of what has occurred since may not be unprofitable. What was painfully uncertain then, is much better defined and more distinct now; and the progress of events is plainly in the right direction. The insurgents confidently claimed a strong support from north of Mason and Dixon's line; and the friends of the Union were not free from apprehension on the point. This, however, was soon settled definitely and on the right side. South of the line, noble little Delaware led off right from the first. Maryland was made to seem against the Union. Our soldiers were assaulted, bridges were burned, and railroads torn up, within her limits; and we were many days, at one time, without the ability to bring a single regiment over her soil to the capital. Now, her bridges and railroads are repaired and open to the government; she already gives seven regiments to the cause of the Union and none to the enemy; and her people, at a regular election, have sustained the Union, by a larger majority, and a larger aggregate vote than they ever before gave to any candidate, or any question. Kentucky, too, for some time in doubt, is now decidedly, and, I think, unchangeably, ranged on the side of the Union. Missouri is comparatively quiet; and I believe cannot again be overrun by the insurrectionists. These three States of Maryland, Kentucky, and Missouri, neither of which would promise a single soldier at first, have now an aggregate of not less than forty thousand in the field, for the Union; while, of their citizens, certainly not more than a third of that number, and they of doubtful whereabouts, and doubtful existence, are in arms against it. After a somewhat bloody struggle of months, winter closes on the Union people of western Virginia, leaving them masters of their own country. An insurgent force of about fifteen hundred, for months dominating the narrow peninsular region, constituting the counties of Accomac and Northampton, and known as eastern shore of Virginia, together with some contiguous parts of Maryland, have laid down their arms; and the people there have renewed their allegiance to, and accepted the protection of, the old flag. This leaves no armed insurrectionist north of the Potomac, or east of the Chesapeake. Also we have obtained a footing at each of the isolated points, on the southern coast, of Hatteras, Port Royal, Tybee Island, near Savannah, and Ship Island; and we likewise have some general accounts of popular movements, in behalf of the Union, in North Carolina and Tennessee. These things demonstrate that the cause of the Union is advancing steadily and certainly southward. Since your last adjournment, Lieutenant General Scott has retired from the head of the army. During his long life, the nation has not been unmindful of his merit; yet, on calling to mind how faithfully, ably and brilliantly he has served the country, from a time far back in our history, when few of the now living had been born, and thenceforward continually, I cannot but think we are still his debtors. I submit, therefore, for your consideration, what further mark of recognition is due to him, and to ourselves, as a grateful people. With the retirement of General Scott came the executive duty of appointing, in his stead, a general-in-chief of the army. It is a fortunate circumstance that neither in council nor country was there, so far as I know, any difference of opinion as to the proper person to be selected. The retiring chief repeatedly expressed his judgment in favor of General McClellan for the position; and in this the nation seemed to give a unanimous concurrence. The designation of General McClellan is therefore in considerable degree, the selection of the Country as well as of the Executive; and hence there is better reason to hope there will be given him, the confidence, and cordial support thus, by fair implication, promised, and without which, he cannot, with so full efficiency, serve the country. It has been said that one bad general is better than two good ones; and the saying is true, if taken to mean no more than that an army is better directed by a single mind, though inferior, than by two superior ones, at variance, and cross-purposes with each other. And the same is true, in all joint operations wherein those engaged, can have none but a common end in view, and can differ only as to the choice of means. In a storm at sea, no one on board can wish the ship to sink; and yet, not unfrequently, all go down together, because too many will direct, and no single mind can be allowed to control. It continues to develop that the insurrection is largely, if not exclusively, a war upon the first principle of popular government---the rights of the people. Conclusive evidence of this is found in the most grave and maturely considered public documents, as well as in the general tone of the insurgents. In those documents we find the abridgement of the existing right of suffrage and the denial to the people of all right to participate in the selection of public officers, except the legislative boldly advocated, with labored arguments to prove that large control of the people in government, is the source of all political evil. Monarchy itself is sometimes hinted at as a possible refuge from the power of the people. In my present position, I could scarcely be justified were I to omit raising a warning voice against this approach of returning despotism. It is not needed, nor fitting here, that a general argument should be made in favor of popular institutions; but there is one point, with its connexions, not so hackneyed as most others, to which I ask a brief attention. It is the effort to place capital on an equal footing with, if not above labor , in the structure of government. It is assumed that labor is available only in connexion with capital; that nobody labors unless somebody else, owning capital, somehow by the use of it, induces him to labor. This assumed, it is next considered whether it is best that capital shall hire laborers, and thus induce them to work by their own consent, or buy them, and drive them to it without their consent. Having proceeded so far, it is naturally concluded that all laborers are either hired laborers, or what we call slaves. And further it is assumed that whoever is once a hired laborer, is fixed in that condition for life. Now, there is no such relation between capital and labor as assumed; nor is there any such thing as a free man being fixed for life in the condition of a hired laborer. Both these assumptions are false, and all inferences from them are groundless. Labor is prior to, and independent of, capital. Capital is only the fruit of labor, and could never have existed if labor had not first existed. Labor is the superior of capital, and deserves much the higher consideration. Capital has its rights, which are as worthy of protection as any other rights. Nor is it denied that there is, and probably always will be, a relation between labor and capital, producing mutual benefits. The error is in assuming that the whole labor of community exists within that relation. A few men own capital, and that few avoid labor themselves, and, with their capital, hire or buy another few to labor for them. A large majority belong to neither class---neither work for others, nor have others working for them. In most of the southern States, a majority of the whole people of all colors are neither slaves nor masters; while in the northern a large majority are neither hirers nor hired. Men with their families---wives, sons, and daughters---work for themselves, on their farms, in their houses, and in their shops, taking the whole product to themselves, and asking no favors of capital on the one hand, nor of hired laborers or slaves on the other. It is not forgotten that a considerable number of persons mingle their own labor with capital---that is, they labor with their own hands, and also buy or hire others to labor for them; but this is only a mixed, and not a distinct class. No principle stated is disturbed by the existence of this mixed class. Again: as has already been said, there is not, of necessity, any such thing as the free hired laborer being fixed to that condition for life. Many independent men everywhere in these States, a few years back in their lives, were hired laborers. The prudent, penniless beginner in the world, labors for wages awhile, saves a surplus with which to buy tools or land for himself; then labors on his own account another while, and at length hires another new beginner to help him. This is the just, and generous, and prosperous system, which opens the way to all---gives hope to all, and consequent energy, and progress, and improvement of condition to all. No men living are more worthy to be trusted than those who toil up from poverty---none less inclined to take, or touch, aught which they have not honestly earned. Let them beware of surrendering a political power which they already possess, and which, if surrendered, will surely be used to close the door of advancement against such as they, and to fix new disabilities and burdens upon them, till all of liberty shall be lost. From the first taking of our national census to the last are seventy years; and we find our population at the end of the period eight times as great as it was at the beginning. The increase of those other things which men deem desirable has been even greater. We thus have at one view, what the popular principle applied to government, through the machinery of the States and the Union, has produced in a given time; and also what, if firmly maintained, it promises for the future. There are already among us those, who, if the Union be preserved, will live to see it contain two hundred and fifty millions. The struggle of today, is not altogether for today---it is for a vast future also. With a reliance on Providence, all the more firm and earnest, let us proceed in the great task which events have devolved upon us. December 3, 1861 ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Form Letter to Chaplains
December 3, 1861
Schedule A. Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., 1861 Rev.------. Sir: Having been solicited by Christian ministers, and other pious people, to appoint suitable persons to act as chaplains at the hospitals for our sick and wounded soldiers, and feeling the intrinsic propriety of having such persons to so act, and yet believing there is no law conferring the power upon me to appoint them, I think fit to say that if you will voluntarily enter upon and perform the appropriate duties of such position, I will recommend that Congress make compensation therefor at the same rate as chaplains in the army are compensated. The following are the names and dates, respectively, of the persons and times to whom and when such letters were delivered: Rev. G. G. Goss . . . 	September 25, 1861. Rev. John G. Butler . . . 	September 25, 1861. Rev. Henry Hopkins . . . 	September 25, 1861. Rev. F. M. Magrath . . . 	October 30, 1861. Rev. F. E. Boyle . . . 	October 30, 1861. Rev. John C. Smith . . . 	November 7, 1861. Rev. Wm. Y. Brown . . . 	November 7, 1861.

Endorsement on Bill Rendered by Daniel B. Pond

I advise that the above account be paid. A. LINCOLN Dec. 3. 1861

To George B. McClellan
December 3, 1861
Please read and consider this letter. A.L.

To Simon Cameron

This letter is worth preserving; and, being addressed to the Secretary of War, I return it to him. A. LINCOLN Dec. 4. 1861.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir Dec. 4. 1861
Mr. Senator Rice says he would be personally obliged by the appointment of Joel D. Cruttenden, of Minn. as a Q.M. or Com. and I would be glad to oblige Senator Rice. If this can not be done at once, lay it by for one of the first that can. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: December 4, 1861
I transmit, herewith, a report from the Secretary of State, in reply to the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 13th. July, last, in relation to the correspondence between this Government and foreign nations respecting the rights of blockade, privateering and the recognition of the so called Confederate States. Washington, 4 December 1861. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: December 4, 1861
I transmit, herewith, a report from the Secretary of State, in reply to the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 31st. July, last, upon the subject of increasing and extending trade and commerce of the United States with Foreign Countries. Washington, December 4, 1861. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
December 4, 1861
I am somewhat anxious that Gen. Van Antwerp shall be appointed to go into Gen. Halleck's staff, unless Gen. McClellan knows some objection, or difficulty. Will he please attend to it? Dec. 04, 1861. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Henry D. Wallen
[December 4, 1861?]
Henry D. Wallen, now a Major in the regular Army, is pressed by his friends to be an Inspector General, or Brigadier General.

To William H. Seward
December 4, 1861
As this appointment of a consul is desired by Mr. Hickman, who is much of a man, and does not trouble us much, I wish it to be made if it is within reasonable possibility. A. LINCOLN Dec. 4, 1861.

To Mrs. Susannah Weathers
Executive Mansion, My dear Madam Washington, Dec. 4, 1861.
I take great pleasure in acknowledging the receipt of your letter of Nov. 26; and in thanking you for the present by which it was accompanied. A pair of socks so fine, and soft, and warm, could hardly have been manufactured in any other way than the old Kentucky fashion. Your letter informs me that your maiden name was Crume, and that you were raised in Washington county, Kentucky, by which I infer that an uncle of mine by marriage was a relative of yours. Nearly, or quite sixty years ago, Ralph Crume married Mary Lincoln, a sister of my father, in Washington county, Kentucky.  Accept my thanks, and believe me Very truly Your friend Mrs. Susannah Weathers A. LINCOLN. Rossville, Clinton Co, Ind.

To Edward Bates
December 5, 1861
The writer of this intimates that he has appealed to me before. I have no recollection of it. Has the Attorney General a transcript of record or other papers concerning it? The gentleman who brings me the letter says it is a ``Slavetrade'' conviction, of a minor grade. A. LINCOLN Dec. 5. 1861.

To Simon Cameron
December 5, 1861
Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of War with the suggestion that the claims already adjusted by the commission at St. Louis, might, and I think ought to, be paid at once. Dec. 5. 1861. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States December 5, 1861
I transmit to the Senate, for its consideration with a view to ratification, a treaty between the United States of America and His Majesty the King of Hanover, concerning the abolition of the Stade or Brunshausen Dues, signed at Berlin on the 6th November, 1861. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, December 5th, 1861.

To Joseph G. Totten
December 5, 1861
This young man, George H. Palmer, fought with Col. Mulligan at Lexington, & is now recommended by him & others for a Cadetship. He will be twenty one April 16, 1862. Is he too old to be admitted, as matters now stand? Will Gen. Totten please answer? Dec. 5. 1861. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of George H. Palmer
[December 5, 1861]
But this young man is not 21, till April 16, 1862. Is there no vacancy to which he could be appointed before that time? A.L.

To Gideon Welles[a]

This day, Dec. 5, 1861, Mrs. Nininger, sister of Gov. Ramsey, calls, with her son, Alexander R. Nininger, 17 2nd. Augt. last, asking to have him placed at the Naval School. Will the Sec. of Navy please preserve this, and give it favorable consideration at the proper time? A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Will the Secretary of the Navy please examine this, and inform me what, according to the rules of the Department I should do. Dec. 5. 1861 A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron

Sec. of War, please see the bearer, who is Marshal of the S. District of Illinois. A. LINCOLN Dec. 6. 1861

To George B. McClellan

Gen. McClellan, please see Col. Hawkins, who comes from Gen. Wool. A. LINCOLN Dec. 6. 1861.

To George B. McClellan
December 6, 1861
Gen. McClellan, please see Senator Johnson & friends. I think you might show him Gen. Buell's letter. You will judge---I think, if it prove true that Brownlow has had a success, we must push a column to join him. A. LINCOLN Dec. 6. 1861

To George B. McClellan
Majr. Genl. McClellan: Executive Mansion. Dec. 6. 1861
My dear Sir: Capt. Francis G. Young, of the California regiment (Col. Baker's) is in some difficulty---I do not precisely understand what. I believe you know I was unfavorably impressed towards him because of apparently contradictory accounts he gave me of some matters at the battle of Ball's Bluff. At length he has brought me the paper which accompanies this, showing, I think, that he is entitled to respectful consideration. As you see, it is signed by several senators and representatives, as well as other well known and respectable gentlemen. I attach considerable consequence to the name of Lt. Col. Shaler, late Major Shaler of the New-York 7th.  These things and his late connection with Col. Baker, induce me to ask you if, consistently with the public service, the past whatever it is, can not be waived, and he be placed in service, and given another chance? Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph G. Totten

Gen. Totten, please see Mr. Prentice, and, if you conveniently can, fix up the business he wishes. A. LINCOLN Dec. 7, 1861.

To Simon Cameron
December 9, 1861
The writers of these two letters are democrats earnestly and efficiently supporting the War; and I would be pleased for them to be obliged in the matter mentioned so soon as it can consistently be done. A. LINCOLN Dec. 9. 1861.

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: December 9, 1861
I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State in reply to the resolution of the House of the 4th. instant, relative to the intervention of certain European Powers in the affairs of Mexico. Washington, December 9, 1861. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
December 9, 1861
Is it true that Schofield is, or is to be ordered East? My expectation & wish was for him to remain in Mo. Please answer. A. LINCOLN Dec. 9. 1861.

To William H. Seward

Respectfully submitted to the State Department, with reference to Consular application of Prof. J. H. McChesney A. LINCOLN Dec. 9. 1861.

To William H. Seward
Hon: Sec. of State Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Dec. 9. 1861
Hon: Mr. Blair of Pennsylvania had reason to expect a Consular appointment for one of his friends, and has been disappointed. Please see him, & show him what remains, & if there is anything he will accept for his friend, let him have it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Draft of a Dispatchin Reply to Lord John Russell
Concerning the Trent Affair  [December 10? 1861]
The despatch of Her Majesty's Secretary for Foreign Affairs, dated the 30th. of November 1861, and, of which your Lordship kindly furnished me a copy, has been carefully considered by the President; and he directs me to say that if there existed no fact, or facts pe[r]tinent to the case, beyond those stated in said despatch, the reparation sought by Great Brittain from the United States, would be justly due, and should be promptly made. The President is unwilling to believe that Her Majesty's Government will press for a categorical answer upon what appears to him to be only a partial record, in the making up of which, he has been allowed no part. He is reluctant to volunteer his view of the case, with no assurance that Her Majesty's Government will consent to hear him; yet this much he directs me to say, that this government has intended no affront to the British flag, or to the British nation; nor has it intended to force into discussion, an embarrassing question, all which is evident by the fact, hereby asserted, that the act complained of was done by the officer, without orders from, or expectation of, the government. But being done, it was no longer left to us to consider whether we might not, to avoid a controversy, waive an unimportant, though a strict right; because we too, as well as Great Brittain, have a people justly jealous of their rights, and in whose presence our government could undo the act complained of, only upon a fair showing that it was wrong, or, at least, very questionable. The United States government and people, are still willing to make reparation upon such showing. Accordingly I am instructed by the President to inquire whether Her Majesty's government will hear the United States upon the matter in question. The President desires, among other things, to bring into view, and have considered, the existing rebellion in the United States-the position Great Brittain has assumed, including Her Majesty's proclamation, in relation thereto-the relation the persons, whose seizure is the subject of complaint, bore to the United States, and the object of their voyage at the time they were seized-the knowledge which the master of the Trent had of their relation to the United States, and of the object of their voyage, at the time he received them on board for the voyage-the place of the seizure-and the precedents, and respective positions assumed, in analagous cases, between Great Brittain and the United States. Upon a Submission, containing the foregoing facts, with those set forth in the before mentioned despatch to your Lordship, together with all other facts which either party may deem material, I am instructed to say the government of the United States will, if agreed to by Her Majesty's government, go to such friendly arbitration as is usual among nations, and will abide the award. Or, in the alternative, Her Majesty's government may, upon the same record, determine whether any, and if any, what reparation is due from the United States; provided , no such reparation shall be different in character from, nor transcend, that proposed by your Lordship, as instructed in and by the despatch aforesaid; and, provided further , that the determination thus made shall be the law for all future analagous cases, between Great Brittain and the United States.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Dec. 12. 1861
I do not remember what letters, or notes of mine may be on file, in regard to applications for Pay-Masters in the Regular Army; but I wish the son of the Pay-Master General-Charles T. Larned-to have the first vacancy, which he can have consistently with my former letters, and notes. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron

Sec. of War please preserve this, until the question shall be acted on. A. LINCOLN Dec. 12. 1861.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion Dec. 12, 1861
Gov. Morton tells me that Bishop Ames, of high standing in the Methodist church, wishes his son-Edwin R. Ames-appointed a Lieutenant in the regular Army. Let this be done if possible. Yours truly A. LINCOLN P.S. if done, notify Gov. Morton. A. L.

To Simon Cameron

If Dr. Boyd Pendleton, has passed an examination, to be a Brigade Surgeon, I would like to appoint him at once. A. LINCOLN Dec. 12. 1861.

To Simon Cameron
December 12, 1861
Senators have told me this young man was not confirmed last session simply because nobody seemed to know him. I would like to re-nominate him if it will not derange things. Dec. 12, 1861 A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Private Brig. Genl. S. R. Curtis. Washington, D. C. My dear Sir. Dec. 12, 1861
I snatch a moment to both thank you, and apologise to you. In all sincerity I thank you for the complete and entirely satisfactory manner in which you executed the trusts I confided to you by letter. You, and others, particularly, and the public service generally, were wronged, and injured by the publication of Gen. Thomas' report, on his return from the West. I have no apology only to say it never would have been done, if I had had the least suspicion it was to be done. Being done, I thought the maxim ``least said, soonest mended'' applied to the case. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To William M. Dunn
December 12, 1861
I, as President, am not entitled by law, to appoint to the Naval school, either at large or otherwise. Mr Dunn will see that I have kindly indorsed Mr. Hayden's letter; so that it may be sent to the Secretary of the Navy. A. LINCOLN Dec. 12. 1861.

Memorandum: Appointment of August Willich and George W. Hazzard
December 12, 1861
To-day---Dec. 12. 1861. Gov. Morton calls, and asks, Col. Willech and Capt. Hazzard, whom I know, for Brig. Genls. He says Col. Willech resides in New-York, but is in command of an Indiana regiment, having heretofore served as a Colonel in Prussia.

To William H. Seward

Will the Sec. of State please look at this & mention in Cabinet to-morrow? A. LINCOLN Dec. 12. 1861.

To George H. Stuart
Rev. George H. Stuart Executive Mansion, Washington, Chairman of Christian Commission Dec. 12, 1861.
My dear Sir: Your letter of the 11th. Inst. and accompanying plan, both of which are returned as a convenient mode of connecting this with them, have just been received. Your christian and benevolent undertaking for the benefit of the soldiers, is too obviously proper, and praise-worthy, to admit any difference of opinion. I sincerely hope your plan may be as successful in execution, as it is just and generous in conception. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To Simon Cameron

Sec. of War, please give Mr. Anderson, of Ky. an interview. He is amply recommended. A. LINCOLN Dec. 13. 1861.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Dec. 13. 1861
At the request of Senator Callamer [ sic ], Gov. Fairbanks & other gentlemen of Vermont, I wish, as a special case, to appoint Dr. Edward E. Phelps, a Brigade Surgeon, to serve with the Vermont Brigade, now commanded by Gen. Brooks.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) Please take steps to have this done at once. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum: Appointment of George May
December 13, 1861
I knew George May, when a boy, and young man, then a little inclined to dissipation. If free from that now, he has intellect enough for almost any place. I suppose the within names ought to be a sufficient voucher, as to that. A. LINCOLN Dec. 13, 1861.

Note on Photographs of Members of Lincoln's Cabinet

These likenesses, so far as I know the originals, are very good. Dec. 13. 1861. A. LINCOLN.

To Caleb B. Smith
Hon. Sec. of Interior Executive Mansion Dec. 13. 1861.
My dear Sir: George S. Pomeroy of Illinois, tells me he was a clerk in the Census Bureau, & has been removed. Will you please ascertain, & tell me the circumstances. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Whom it May Concern
Whom it may concern Washington, D.C. Dec. 13. 1861
It having been represented to me that Jno.  Pope, a citizen of the United States, engaged in the present rebellion against the government thereof, is desirous of returning to his proper allegiance, this may be his full pardon for all political offences committed by him against said government, prior to the first day of January one thousand, eight hundred and sixty two, provided he shall, on or before said day, leave the ranks of said rebellion, and not thereafter do, aid, or encourage anything against the said government of the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN President of the United States of America.

To Arnold Fischel
Rev. Dr. A. Fischel Executive Mansion, December 14, 1861.
My dear Sir: I find that there are several particulars in which the present law in regard to Chaplains is supposed to be deficient, all of which I now design presenting to the appropriate Committee of Congress. I shall try to have a new law broad enough to cover what is desired by you in behalf of the Israelites. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To John F. Lee

Assuming the within statement to be true, will the Judge Advocate please say what are Gen. Benham's rights in the case? Dec. 14. 1861. A. LINCOLN

To John F. Lee
Judge Advocate: Dec 14, 1861
Please see Mr. Schell and Mr Johnson on business of which I spoke this morning. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To the Senate
Executive Mansion, Washington, To the Senate of the United States: December 14, 1861.
In compliance with the resolution of your honorable body, ``that the President be requested to furnish to the Senate copies of the charges, testimony and finding of the recent court of inquiry, in the case of Colonel Dixon S. Miles, of the United States army,'' I have the honor to transmit herewith the copies desired, which have been procured from the War Department. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Gideon Welles
December 14, 1861
If it is legally possible, and can be done with safety to the service, I would be glad for Commander Overton Carr, to be put on shore duty. A. LINCOLN Dec. 14. 1861.

Memorandum: Appointment of Harrison G. Fitzhugh or Captain Johnson
[c. December 15, 1861?]
Has it ever occurred to Mr. Fitzhugh, or Captain Johnson, that in addition to the difficulty of appointing one of them coming from Illinois, possibly Mrs. Lincoln (with whom the Commissioner of Public Buildings has much to do) objects?

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion. My dear Sir: Dec. 16, 1861
I wish Hon: James H. Lane to be appointed a Brigadier General of Volunteers, to report to Gen: Hunter, and to be so assigned to duty as not to be under, over, or in immediate contact with Gen. Denver. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron

This appointment I suppose can be made with propriety. Dec. 16. 1861. A. LINCOLN

Draft of Letter to the Senate Prepared for Ward H. Lamon
To the Senate of the United States [December 16, 1861]
In obedience to the resolution of your Honorable body, a copy of which accompanies this, I have the honor to state that since I have held the office of Marshal of the District of Columbia, three persons claimed to be slaves, have been admitted into the jail of said District on the requests, respectively, of the persons claiming to be their owners; that this has been acquiesced in by me, upon an old and uniform custom here, based as I supposed upon some valid law, but of which supposed law I have made no investigation.

To George B. McClellan

If Gen. McClellan thinks it proper, let the appointment be made as requested by Gen. Halleck. A. LINCOLN Dec. 16. 1861.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 16, 1861
I submit to the Senate for consideration with a view to ratification, the amendments introduced by the Constituent National Assembly of Bolivia, in its decree of ratification, into the Treaty of Peace, Friendship, Commerce and Navigation concluded with that Republic on the 13th. May, 1858; an official translation of which decree accompanies this message with the original Treaty. As the time within which the exchange of ratifications should be effected is limited, I recommend, in view of the delay which must necessarily occur, and of the difficulty of reaching the Seat of Government of that Republic, that the time within which such exchange shall take place be extended in the following terms--- ``within such period as may be mutually convenient to both Governments.'' ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 16 December, 1861.

To William H. Seward

If any charges should come against Col. Russel let us give him a hearing before acting. A. LINCOLN Dec. 16. 1861.

To William H. Seward

Sec. of State, please see Lieut. Webb, of the British Army. Dec. 16. 1861. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 17, 1861
I transmit to the Senate for its advice, a copy of a draft for a Convention with the Republic of Mexico, proposed to the Government of that Republic by Mr. Corwin, the Minister of the United States accredited to that Government, together with the correspondence relating to it. As the subject is of momentous interest to the two Governments at this juncture, the early consideration of it by the Senate is very desirable. Washington, 17th December, 1861 ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 17, 1861
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to the Senate and House of Representatives copies of the correspondence between the Secretary of State, Secretary of War, and the Governor of the State of Maine, on the subject of the fortification of the seacoast and Lakes. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, December 17, 1861.

To Alexander II
December 18, 1861
Abraham Lincoln President of the United States of America, To His Majesty Alexander II Emperor and Autocrat of all the Russias, &c., &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Imperial Majesty addressed to me on the 21st. of October last, informing me that Her Imperial Highness the Grand Duchess Olga Teodorowra, Spouse of Your Majesty's well beloved brother, His Imperial Highness the Grand Duke Michel Nicolaewitsch was happily delivered of a son on the 4th. of that month who has received the name of Michel. I pray Your Majesty to accept my cordial congratulations upon this event, and to be assured that I take a lively interest in all that concerns the happiness and prosperity of Your Imperial House: And so I recommend Your Imperial Majesty and Your Royal Family to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend. Washington, 18th. Decr. 1861 ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State

Appointment of George Harrington
Washington, December 18th. 1861
George Harrington, is hereby appointed to discharge the duties of Secretary of the Treasury, during the absence of Salmon P. Chase, from Washington. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Montgomery C. Meigs

Will the Quater-Master-General please see this worthy man, who wishes to work? A. LINCOLN. Dec. 19, 1861

Memorandum:Appointment of Richard C. Churchill

I do not know a case more strongly presented than this. Dec. 19. 1861. A. LINCOLN

To James W. Ripley

Let the fifty guns be ordered on the terms above recommended by Genl. McClellan & not otherwise. A LINCOLN Dec. 19. 1861.

To William H. Seward

This is forwarded merely to back a nomination already made, as I understand A. LINCOLN Dec. 19, 1861.

To William H. Seward

If the consulate at Cape Town is open, I perceive no objection to the appointment within recommended. A. LINCOLN Dec. 19. 1861.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Dec. 20. 1861.
Let Thomas Francis Meagher, be appointed a Brigadier General of volunteers Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
December 20, 1861
Senator Sherman spoke to me verbally about the within matter, upon which I desired him to put it in writing. Can there be anything for the two officers to do in Oregon equal in importance to them remaining with the volunteer regiments, under the peculiar circumstances? I hope Gen. McClellan will say not. A. LINCOLN Dec. 20, 1861.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 20, 1861
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a letter from the Secretary of the Executive Committee of the Commission appointed to represent the interests of those American citizens who may desire to become exhibitors at the Industrial Exhibition to be held in London in 1862, and a Memorial of that Commission, with a report of the Executive Committee thereof, and copies of circulars announcing the decisions of Her Majesty's Commissioners in London, giving directions to be observed in regard to articles intended for exhibition, and also of circular forms of application, demands for space, approvals, &c., according to the rules prescribed by the British Commissioners. As these papers fully set forth the requirements necessary to enable those citizens of the United States who may wish to become exhibitors to avail themselves of the privileges of the Exhibition, I commend them to your early consideration, especially in view of the near approach of the time when the Exhibition will begin. Washington, 20th. Decr., 1861. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To John F. Lee
Judge Advocate Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Dec. 21. 1861
A lady is here saying she is the wife of Capt. or Lieut. Robert Hunter, lately cashiered from the regular Army by a court martial. If you have a transcript of the record, I will thank you to send it to me, to be returned in due time. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Caleb B. Smith

Sec. of Interior, send me a nomination of Mr. Calvin H. Hale, as within recommended. A. LINCOLN Dec. 21. 1861

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Dec. 23. 1861
Let Napoleon T.J. Dana of Minnesota be appointed a Brigadier General of volunteers. Yours truly A. LINCOLN If Gen. McClellan perceives no objection to the above, will he please approve it, & forward, the paper to the War Department? A.L.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Dec. 23. 1861
By the 1st. of June next, I wish to appoint Jesse W. Fell, of Illinois, as Paymaster in the Army, & I wish this placed on file to be a remembrance on the subject. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
December 23, 1861
To the House of Representatives: In compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 13th July last, requesting information respecting the Asiatic coolie trade, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, with the documents which accompanied it. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, December 23, 1861.

To Simon Cameron

I have before said, and now repeat, I would like Dr. Breckenridges son to be appointed as soon as he consistently can. Dec. 24. 1861. A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
December 25, 1861
Within is the list of persons whom Gen. T.F. Meagher wishes appointed to his staff. He is very anxious, & I promised him to urge compliance so far as consistent with the service. Please have Adjt. Genl. look to it. A. LINCOLN Dec. 25. 1861

To Simon Cameron
December 27, 1861
This inchoate Brigade, was set on foot by particular friends of mine some time ago. I expect they will have to be completed by consolidation. I wish the very best done for them that can be consistently with the public service A. LINCOLN Dec. 27. 1861

Endorsement

The writer of this is a most worthy young man, with an excellent education & good business qualifications. I personally know him. Dec. 27. 1861. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Henry W. Halleck and James H. Lane
December 27, 1861.
An excellent letter; though I am sorry General Halleck is so unfavorably impressed with General Lane. A.L.

To Simon Cameron

Please see Gov. Crittenden, & appoint Dr. Bradford, a Surgeon for Gen. Nelson's Brigade, if it is legally possible. A. LINCOLN Dec. 28. 1861

To Henry Liebman
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C. Henry Liebman Dec. 28, 1861.
My dear Sir: Your private letter in regard to Mr. Burtwell is received. I have no power to remove a Lieut-Colonel appointed by the Governor of New York. The appeal must be made, if at all, to the Governor. Yours, etc., A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of George R. Edwards

I do not know the position into which I could put Mr. Edwards. Dec. 28. 1861. A.L.

To William H. Seward

Might we not let Gov. Moorehead loose? A. LINCOLN Dec. 28, 1861

To Joseph G. Totten

Do we have need of the property this good old patriot so kindly offers us? A. LINCOLN Dec. 28. 1861

To Edward Bates

What thinks the Attorney-General about the proposed court in Arkansas? A. LINCOLN Dec. 30. 1861.

Note

Not having the Act of Congress before me, I know not whether I am to do anything with the paper, other than to read & return. Dec. 30, 1861 A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Porter
December 30, 1861
. . . please my intimate personal friend, Geo. C. Beilor.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 30, 1861
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a correspondence which has taken place between the Secretary of State and authorities of Great Britain and France, on the subject of the recent removal of certain citizens of the United States from the British mail-steamer Trent, by order of Captain Wilkes, in command of the United States war-steamer San Jacinto. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, December 30, 1861.

To William H. Seward
[December 30, 1861?]
What thinks the Sec. of State, of the within? A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
December 31, 1861
These very ample recommendations are respectfully submitted to the War Department, being quite willing the appointment shall be made if it consistently can. A. LINCOLN Dec. 31. 1861.

To Agenor-Etienne Gasparin
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, December 31, 1861.
It gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your favour of the 2nd of December. Although the matter to which it related was decided before your letter was received, I am none the less grateful at your manifestation of kindly interest. Allow me to assure you, Sir, that our people are not unmindful of your cordial sympathy and eloquent championship. I have the honor to be Your Obedient Servant ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck and Don C. Buell
General Halleck Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Mo.: December 31, 1861.
General McClellan is sick. Are General Buell and yourself in concert? When he moves on Bowling Green, what hinders it being re-enforced from Columbus? A simultaneous movement by you on Columbus might prevent it. A. LINCOLN. (Similar despatch to Buell same date.)

To David Hunter
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Hunter. Dec. 31, 1861.
Dear Sir: Yours of the 23rd. is received; and I am constrained to say it is difficult to answer so ugly a letter in good temper. I am, as you intimate, losing much of the great confidence I placed in you, not from any act or omission of yours touching the public service, up to the time you were sent to Leavenworth, but from the flood of grumbling despatches and letters I have seen from you since. I knew you were being ordered to Leavenworth at the time it was done; and I aver that with as tender a regard for your honor and your sensibilities as I had for my own, it never occurred to me that you were being ``humiliated, insulted and disgraced''; nor have I, up to this day, heard an intimation that you have been wronged, coming from any one but yourself. No one has blamed you for the retrograde movement from Springfield, nor for the information you gave Gen. Cameron; and this you could readily understand, if it were not for your unwarranted assumption that the ordering you to Leavenworth must necessarily have been done as a punishment for some fault . I thought then, and think yet, the position assigned to you is as respo[n]sible, and as honorable, as that assigned to Buell. I know that Gen. McClellan expected more important results from it. My impression is that at the time you were assigned to the new Western Department, it had not been determined to re-place Gen. Sherman in Kentucky; but of this I am not certain, because the idea that a command in Kentucky was very desireable, and one in the farther West, very undesireable, had never occurred to me. You constantly speak of being placed in command of only 3000. Now tell me, is not this mere impatience? Have you not known all the while that you are to command four or five times that many? I have been, and am sincerely your friend; and if, as such, I dare to make a suggestion, I would say you are adopting the best possible way to ruin yourself. ``Act well your part, there all the honor lies.'' He who does something at the head of one Regiment, will eclipse him who does nothing at the head of a hundred. Your friend as ever, A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

Sec. of State, please see, Mr. Gerard. A. LINCOLN Dec. 31. 1861

To Joseph G. Totten

Will Gen Totten, please see Mr Hitchcock A. LINCOLN Dec. 31, 1861.

To George D. Ramsay
[1862?]
Col. Ramsey [ sic ], please see Mr. Hegon [Hecon?],  and show him one of the little breech-loading cannons I got of Hon. Eli Thayer.  A LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Sylvester R. Knight
[c. January, 1862?]
The President sympathizes deeply with Mrs. Knight & her husband, and the many others in like condition---but he is sure she does not appreciate the difficulty of what she asks.

To Don C. Buell
Washington City, Brigadier-General Buell, Louisville: January 1, 1862.
General McClellan should not yet be disturbed with business. I think you better get in concert with General Halleck at once. I write you to-night. I also telegraph and write Halleck. A. LINCOLN.

Draft of a Proclamation to People of Maryland
[c. January 1, 1862?]
In view of the recent declaration of the people of Maryland of their adhesion to the Union so distinctly made in their recent election,  the President directs that all the political prisoners who having heretofore been arrested in that State are now detained in military custody by the President's authority be released from their imprisonment on the following conditions, namely: That if they were holding any civil or military offices when arrested the terms of which have not expired they shall not resume or reclaim such offices; and secondly, all persons availing themselves of this proclamation shall engage by oath or parole of honor to maintain the Union and the Constitution of the United States, and in no way to aid or abet by arms, counsel, conversation or information of any kind the existing insurrection against the Government of the United States. To guard against misapprehension it is proper to state that this proclamation does not apply to prisoners of war.

To Henry W. Halleck
Majr. Genl. Halleck Washington, D.C. St. Louis, Mo. Jany. 1. 1861 
Gen. McClellan should not yet be disturbed with business. I think Gen. Buell and yourself should be in communication and concert at once. I write you to-night, and also Telegraph and write him. A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 1, 1862.
My dear General Halleck: General McClellan is not dangerously ill, as I hope, but would better not to be disturbed with business. I am very anxious that, in case of General Buell's moving toward Nashville, the enemy shall not be greatly re-enforced, and I think there is danger he will be from Columbus. It seems to me that a real or feigned attack upon Columbus from up-river at the same time would either prevent this or compensate for it by throwing Columbus into our hands. I wrote General Buell a letter similar to this, meaning that he and you shall communicate and act in concert, unless it be your judgment and his that there is no necessity for it. You and he will understand much better than I how to do it. Please do not lose time in this matter. Yours, very truly, A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
My dear General Executive Mansion Jany. 1. 1862
I hear that the doings of an Investigating Committee, give you some uneasiness. You may be entirely relieved on this point. The gentlemen of the Committee were with me an hour and a half last night; and I found them in a perfectly good mood. As their investigation brings them acquainted with facts, they are rapidly coming to think of the whole case as all sensible men would. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN Gen. McClellan.

To Salmon P. Chase
January 2, 1862
I have just been with General McClellan; and he is very much better. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 2, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a copy of a letter to the Secretary of State, from James R. Partridge, Secretary to the Executive Committee to the industrial Exhibition to be held in London in the course of the present year, and a copy of the correspondence to which it refers, relative to a vessel for the purpose of taking such articles as persons in this country may wish to exhibit on that occasion. As it appears that no naval vessel can be spared for the purpose, I recommend that authority be given to charter a suitable merchant vessel, in order that facilities similar to those afforded by the Government for the exhibition of 1851, may also be extended to those citizens of the United States who may desire to contribute to the exhibition of this year. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, 2d. Jany. 1862.

Appointment

Let the appointment within requested be made, unless some valid reason to the contrary is known at the Department. Jan. 3. 1862. A. LINCOLN

Appointment of Thomas Feran
Washington January 3rd. 1862
Thomas Feran, is hereby appointed to discharge the duties of Commissioner of Customs, during the absence of N. Sargent, from Washington. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron

My views are that the appointment should be made, or a Quarter-Master---already appointed, be assigned to Gen. Mitchell Jan. 3. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate Washington, D.C. of the United States: January 3. 1862.
I transmit to the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty, concluded on the 15th. November 1861, between Wm. W. Ross, Agent, on the part of the United States and the Chiefs and head men of the tribe of Pottowatomie Indians, with accompanying communications from the Secretary of the Interior and Commissioner of Indian Affairs the latter of which proposes certain modifications of said treaty, which are also referred for the consideration of the Senate. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Don C. Buell
Brig. Gen. Buell Washington, D.C. Louisville, Ky. Jan. 4. 1862
Have arms gone forward for East-Tennessee? Please tell me the progress and condition of the movement, in that direction. Answer. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Majr. Gen. McClellan Executive Mansion My dear Sir Jan 4. 1862.
I have been informed that you wish Francis E. Patterson, of Penn. to be appointed a Brigadier General; and if this is so, so write at the bottom of this, & it shall be done at once. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery C. Meigs
January 4, 1862
I am willing to oblige him [Gen. Cooper], only that I have an impression that you have some objections. If you have not, so write below this, and say he may be appointed.

To Don C.Buell
Executive Mansion, Brig. Gen. Buell Washington, January 6th, 1862.
My dear Sir Your despatch of yesterday has been received, and it disappoints and distresses me. I have shown it to Gen. McClellan, who says he will write you to-day. I am not competent to criticise your views; and therefore what I offer is merely in justification of myself. Of the two, I would rather have a point on the Railroad south of Cumberland Gap, than Nashville, first, because it cuts a great artery of the enemies' communication, which Nashville does not, and secondly because it is in the midst of loyal people, who would rally around it, while Nashville is not. Again, I cannot see why the movement on East Tennessee would not be a diversion in your favor, rather than a disadvantage, assuming that a movement towards Nashville is the main object. But my distress is that our friends in East Tennessee are being hanged and driven to despair, and even now I fear, are thinking of taking rebel arms for the sake of personal protection. In this we lose the most valuable stake we have in the South. My despatch, to which yours is an answer, was sent with the knowledge of Senator Johnson and Representative Maynard of East Tennessee, and they will be upon me to know the answer, which I cannot safely show them. They would despair---possibly resign to go and save their families somehow, or die with them. I do not intend this to be an order in any sense, but merely, as intimated before, to show you the grounds of my anxiety. Yours very Truly A. LINCOLN

To Don C.Buell
Brigr. General Buell Washington, D.C. Louisville, Ky. Jan. 7. 1862
Please name as early a day as you safely can, on, or before which you can be ready to move Southward in concert with Gen. Halleck. Delay is ruining us; and it is indispensable for me to have something definite. I send a like despatch to Halleck. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major General Halleck. Washington, D.C. St. Louis, Mo. Jan. 7. 1862.
Please name as early a day as you safely can, on, or before which, you can be ready to move southward in concert with Gen. Buell. Delay is ruining us; and it is indispensable for me to have something definite. I send a like despatch to Buell. A. LINCOLN.

To Francis T. King and Others
Executive Mansion, Gentlemen: Washington, January 7, 1862.
It gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the receipt through you of the Memorial of the English Friends, in relation to the matter in question between the Government of Great Britain and that of the United States of America. Although I trust that any fears entertained of serious derangement of our amicable relations have been without foundation. I cannot but gratefully appreciate your prompt and generous suggestions in the interests of peace and humanity. I have the honor to be With great respect Your Obt Servt A LINCOLN

To Hiram Barney
January 8, 1862
While I know nothing of Mr. Meade, the writer of this is an old friend of mine, once residing in Illinois, though now in NewYork. I can do no other than to refer the case to the Collector. Jan. 8. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
January 8, 1862
It seems by the accompanying papers that a Brig. Genl. for Cavalry service, is needed; and also in conjunction with the within, that Maj. Davidson is a suitable man. Let him be appointed. Jan. 8. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Seth Williams
Gen. Seth Williams Executive Mansion My dear Sir Jan. 8. 1862
Major Thomas Duncan, now on duty on the border of Mexico, is an Illinoisian, and I had some acquaintance with him when he was young. His wife, whose father resides in this city, is now here, and tells me you know her husband. She is very anxious, as in duty bound, for him to be promoted, but especially for him to be assigned to duty here. Please write me what you know of him as an officer; and, if you can, tell me whether he can be brought here. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
January 9, 1862
This man William Martin, it seems has been imprisoned on some charge of suspicion of kidnapping and as Senator Pomeroy and Hon. Green Adams ask his release, let him be released.

To George B. McClellan
Majr. Genl. McClellan. Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Jan. 9. 1862
I think you better go before the Congressional Committee the earliest moment your health will permit---to-day, if possible. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
January 9, 1862
I send the within copy of dispatch from Gen. Buell, with the remark that neither he nor Halleck meets my request to name the DAY when they can be ready to move.

To William Vandever
January 9, 1862
It would afford me great pleasure to oblige Mr. Vandever in the within matter, if I knew it would not be disagreeable to the other Iowa members. Will he please procure their names with his own & send them to me? A. LINCOLN Jan. 9. 1862.

To Simon Cameron
January 10, 1862
The within is a copy of a letter just received from General Halleck. It is exceedingly discouraging. As everywhere else, nothing can be done. A. LINCOLN January 10, 1862.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 10, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a translation of an instruction to the minister of his Majesty the Emperor of Austria accredited to this government, and a copy of a note to that minister from the Secretary of State, relative to the questions involved in the taking from the British steamer Trent of certain citizens of the United States, by order of the United States navy. This correspondence may be considered as a sequel to that previously communicated to Congress relating to the same subject  . Washington, January 10, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To John A. Andrew
Governor John A. Andrew, Washington, D.C., Boston: January 11, 1862.
I will be greatly obliged if you will arrange somehow with General Butler to officer his two un-officered regiments. A. LINCOLN.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Simon Cameron, Executive Mansion, Secretary of War, Washington, January 11, 1862.
My dear Sir As you have, more than once, expressed a desire for a change of position, I can now gratify you, consistently with my view of the public interest. I therefore propose nominating you to the Senate, next monday, as minister to Russia. Very sincerely Your friend A. LINCOLN.

To Simon Cameron
Private Executive Mansion,
Dear Sir Washington, Jan. 11, 1862.
Though I have said nothing hitherto in response to your wish, expressed long since, to resign your seat in the cabinet, I have not been unmindful of it. I have been only unwilling to consent to a change at a time, and under circumstances which might give occasion to misconstruction, and unable, till now to see how such misconstruction could be avoided. But the desire of Mr. Clay to return home and to offer his services to his country in the field enables me now to gratify your wish, and at the same time evince my personal regard for you, and my confidence in your ability, patriotism, and fidelity to public trust. I therefore tender to your acceptance, if you still desire to resign your present position, the post of Minister to Russia. Should you accept it, you will bear with you the assurance  FOOTNOTES}>(2) of my undiminished confidence, of my affectionate esteem, and of my sure expectation that, near the great sovreign whose personal and hereditary friendship for the United States, so much endears him to Americans, you will be able to render services to your country, not less important than those you could render at home. Very sincerely Your friend A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
January 11, 1862
As appears within, I am requested to indorse the accompanying Commission. As the Sec. of State has given some attention to this subject, and I have not, I think fit to ask him, ``Is this proper?'' and ``What is the form of doing it?'' A. LINCOLN Jan. 11. 1862

To Don C. Buell
COPY --- one also sent to Gen. Halleck. Brig. Genl. Buell. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Jan. 13, 1862.
Your despatch of yesterday is received, in which you say ``I have received your letter and Gen. McClellan's; and will, at once devote all my efforts to your views, and his.'' In the midst of my many cares, I have not seen, or asked to see, Gen. McClellan's letter to you. For my own views, I have not offered, and do not now offer them as orders; and while I am glad to have them respectfully considered, I would blame you to follow them contrary to your own clear judgment---unless I should put them in the form of orders. As to Gen. McClellan's views, you understand your duty in regard to them better than I do. With this preliminary, I state my general idea of this war to be that we have the greater numbers, and the enemy has the greater facility of concentrating forces upon points of collision; that we must fail, unless we can find some way of making our advantage an over-match for his ; and that this can only be done by menacing him with superior forces at different points, at the same time; so that we can safely attack, one, or both, if he makes no change; and if he weakens one to strengthen the other, forbear to attack the strengthened one, but seize, and hold the weakened one, gaining so much. To illustrate, suppose last summer, when Winchester ran away to re-inforce Mannassas, we had forborne to attack Mannassas, but had seized and held Winchester. I mention this to illustrate, and not to criticise. I did not lose confidence in McDowell, and I think less harshly of Patterson than some others seem to. In application of the general rule I am suggesting, every particular case will have its modifying circumstances, among which the most constantly present, and most difficult to meet, will be the want of perfect knowledge of the enemies' movements. This had it's part in the Bull-Run case; but worse, in that case, was the expiration of the terms of the three months men. Applying the principle to your case, my idea is that Halleck shall menace Columbus, and ``down river'' generally; while you menace Bowling-Green, and East Tennessee. If the enemy shall concentrate at Bowling-Green, do not retire from his front; yet do not fight him there, either, but seize Columbus and East Tennessee, one or both, left exposed by the concentration at Bowling Green. It is matter of no small anxiety to me and one which I am sure you will not over-look, that the East Tennessee line, is so long, and over so bad a road. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Halleck

Having to-day written Gen. Buell a letter, it occurs to me to send Gen. Halleck a copy of it. A. LINCOLN Jan 13, 1862.

To Thomas A. Scott
Col Thomas A. Scott. Executive Mansion, Assistant Secretary of War: Washington, January 14, 1862
My dear Sir, Understanding that it is the wish of several military gentlemen to witness a formal test of Mr. Knorr's[?] invention, and further understanding that it will not incur either expense or inconvenience to the War Department, I would recommend that such a test be made. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Washington, D.C., Major-General Halleck: January 15, 1862.
My dear Sir: This will introduce Gov. G. Koerner, of Illinois, who is my personal friend, and who calls on you at my particular request. Please open the sealed letter he will hand you before he leaves you and confer with him as to its contents. Yours, very truly, A. LINCOLN. [ Inclosure .] Executive Mansion, Major-General Halleck: Washington, January 15, 1862. My dear Sir: The Germans are true and patriotic, and so far as they have got cross in Missouri it is upon mistake and misunderstanding. Without a knowledge of its contents Governor Koerner, of Illinois, will hand you this letter. He is an educated and talented German gentleman, as true a man as lives. With his assistance you can set everything right with the Germans. I write this without his knowledge, asking him at the same time, by letter, to deliver it. My clear judgment is that, with reference to the German element in your command, you should have Governor Koerner with you; and if agreeable to you and him, I will make him a brigadier-general, so that he can afford to so give his time. He does not wish to command in the field, though he has more military knowledge than many who do. If he goes into the place he will simply be an efficient, zealous, and unselfish assistant to you. I say all this upon intimate personal acquaintance with Governor Koerner. Yours, very truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Gustave P. Koerner
Washington, D.C. My dear Gov. Koerner Jan. 15, 1862
Herewith is an open letter of introduction of yourself to Gen. Halleck, and also, a sealed one. Please deliver them both to him, in person, as soon as you conveniently can. The sealed letter contains matter I wish him to confer with you about, relative to the germans in his command. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, January 15, 1862.
Please inform me, if in your opinion, a delay of action in the case of B. F. Gallagher  , Paymaster, for one month, will endanger the ultimate collection of the government funds for which he is accountable. If not I would like to grant such delay. Yours truly The Secretary of the Navy A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If a clerkship can be given Mr Goodwin I shall be very glad I am very earnest about this. A. LINCOLN Jany. 16th 1862

To the Senate
To the Senate Washington, D.C. of the United States. January 17 1862
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of the Senate, a petition of certain members of the Pottowatomie tribe of Indians, complaining of the treaty made by W. W. Ross  , on the 15th November last, with that tribe; which treaty was laid before the Senate for its constitutional action, in my communication to that body dated the 6th instant. A letter of the 16th instant from the Secretary of the Interior, enclosing a report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs dated the 15th. inst. in relation to the subject, is also, herewith, transmitted. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 17, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a translation of an instruction to the minister of his Majesty the King of Prussia accredited to this government, and a copy of a note to that minister from the Secretary of State, relating to the capture and detention of certain citizens of the United States, passengers on board the British steamer Trent, by order of Captain Wilkes, of the United States navy. Washington, January 17, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward

Deal with a man in Illinois, as you would if he were in any other state. A.L. Jan. 17. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir Jan. 17. 1862.
If you can do anything for Col. Wampole, I shall be glad. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John F. Lee

Will the Judge Advocate please tell me whether anything, & what I ought to do in this case. A. LINCOLN Jan. 18. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion Jan. 18. 1862
To-day Gov. Crittenden, Senators Hale, Lane of Ia, and Nesmith  , call and beg that Major Wallen may not be sent to New-Mexico for duty, but that he may be retained in service on this side. I sincerely desire this to be done, if it can be without too much derangement of the public service. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph G. Totten
January 18, 1862
I wish it to [be] definitely settled, that the appointment within requested is to be made, as one of the ten at large for this year; and I will thank Gen. Totten to remind me of it at the proper time. Jan. 18. 1862. A. LINCOLN

Appointment of Charles E. Mix
Executive Mansion Washington January 20/1862
I hereby appoint Charles E. Mix, Chief Clerk of the Office of Indian Affairs, to be acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs, during the absence of Commissioner Dole from the Seat of Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Montgomery C. Meigs
Respectfully submitted to Q. M. General. A. LINCOLN Jan. 21. 1862.
P.S. I feel some more than ordinary interest in this case. Jan. 21. 1862. A. L.

To Luiz I
January 22, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Majesty Dom Luiz I, King of Portugal, &c., &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 22nd. of November, last, communicating intelligence of the demise of Your Majesty's honored brothers, His late Majesty Dom Pedro V and His Highness the Most Serene Infante Dom Fernando, and of your accession to the throne of Portugal. Assuring you of my deep sympathy at the death of your august brother, who was the constant friend of the United States and also at the melancholy loss of your beloved brother, His Highness Dom Fernando, I beg leave to offer to Your Majesty my sincere and hearty congratulations upon your accession to the throne of your ancestors, with my best wishes that your reign may be happy and glorious to yourself and prosperous to your realm. Permit me also to assure Your Majesty of my constant and earnest desire to maintain the amity and good correspondence which have always subsisted and still prevail between the two nations, and that nothing shall be omitted on my part to cultivate and promote the friendly sentiments always entertained and cherished by this Government in its relations with His late Majesty. And so I recommend Your Majesty to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, January 22, 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Luiz I
January 22, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Majesty Dom Luiz I, King of Portugal, &c., &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 22nd. of November, last, announcing the marriage of Her Highness the Most Serene Princess Dona Antonia, Your Majesty's beloved sister, with His Highness the Prince Leopold, son of His Royal Highness the Prince of Hohenzollern Sigmaringen. I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event and pray Your Majesty to accept my sincere congratulations upon the occasion, May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping! Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, January 22, 1862. By the President. WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To George B. McClellan
Majr. Genl. McClellan Executive Mansion My dear Sir Jan. 22. 1862
Gen. Benham appeals to me to be either assigned, to duty, or given an immediate hearing upon the charges against him. I think this is but reasonable. What say you? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum

I wish to remember this young man for 1863, & to appoint him, unless there shall be over-bearing reasons to the contrary Jan. 22, 1862. A. LINCOLN

Note to Admit German Committee

Let the German committee from N.Y send in this card Jan. 22. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate Washington, D.C. of the United States. January , 1862.
I transmit, herewith, for the constitutional action of the Senate, articles of agreement and convention concluded at Niobrarah, Nebraska territory, on the 14th day of November 1860, between J. Shaw Gregory, Agent on the part of the United States, and the Chiefs, and head men, of the Poncas tribe of Indians, being supplementary to the treaty with said tribe, made on the 12th day of March 1858. I also transmit a letter dated the 4th instant, from the Secretary of the Interior enclosing a copy of a report of the commissioner of Indian Affairs, of the 20th September 1861, in relation to the subject. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

I wish first to see Senators Pomeroy & Sumner, who recommended Holmes. If they do not object we will appoint Arney at once. Jan. 22. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Secretary of War. Washington, Jan. 22, 1862.
My dear Sir: Richard M. Corwine was appointed Judge Advocate by Gen. Fremont on the 20th of July last, and served as such till the 18th of November last. He never had a Commission, but his services were as valuable, and his conduct as meritorious, as if his appointment had been entirely regular. His is but one of a class of cases, which class has been under consideration at the War Department, but what has been done with it I do not know. The meritorious ones ought to have Commissions, nunc pro tunc , as an honorable recognition of them, and should also be paid. I hope this may be done, including Major Corwine in the arrangement. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
(COPY). Hon Sec of War Executive Mansion My Dear Sir January 22. 1862
On reflection I think it will not do as a rule for the Adjutant General to attend me wherever I go; not that I have any objection to his presence, but that it would be an uncompensating incumbrance both to him and me. When it shall occur to me to go anywhere, I wish to be free to go at once, and not to have to notify the Adjutant General, and wait till he can get ready. It is better too, for the public service, that he shall give his time to the business of his office, and not to personal attendance on me. While I thank you for the kindness of the suggestion, my view of the matter is as I have stated. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Andrew H. Foote
[January 23, 1862]
The President wishes the rafts with their 13 inch mortars and all appointments to be ready for use at the earliest possible moment. What can we do here to advance this? What is lacking? What is being done, so far as you know? Telegraph us every day, showing the progress, or lack of progress in this matter.

To Heads of Departments and Bureaus
January 23, 1862
This man wants to work ---so uncommon a want that I think it ought to be gratified. I shall be obliged by any Head of of [sic] a Bureau, or Department who can and will find work for him. Jan. 23. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate: January 24, 1862
I lay before the Senate a despatch which has just been received from Mr. Corwin, our Minister in Mexico. It communicates important information concerning the war which is waged against Mexico by the combined powers of Spain, France and Great Britain. Mr. Corwin asks instructions by which to regulate his proceedings so as to save our national interests in the case of an adjustment of the difficulties between the belligerents. I have heretofore submitted  to the Senate a request for its advice upon the question pending by treaty for making a loan to Mexico, which Mr. Corwin thinks will, in any case be expedient. It seems to me to be my duty now to solicit an early action of the Senate upon the subject, to the end that I may cause such instructions to be given to Mr. Corwin as will enable him to act in the manner which, while it will most carefully guard the interests of our country, will at the same time be most beneficial to Mexico. Washington, 24 January 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 24, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives. I submit to Congress the accompanying copy of a correspondence between the Secretary of State, the Spanish Minister and the Secretary of the Navy, concerning the case of the barque ``Providencia,''---a Spanish vessel seized, on her voyage from Havana to New York, by a Steamer of the United States' blockading squadron, & subsequently released. I recommend the appropriation of the amount of the award of the referee. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, January 24th, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
[January 24, 1862]
The Secretary of War has my authority to exercise his discretion in the matter within mentioned. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, January 24, 1862.
My dear Sir: On reflection, I think you better make a peremptory order on the ordnance officer at Pittsburg to ship the ten mortars and two beds to Cairo instantly, and all others as fast as finished, till ordered to stop, reporting each shipment to the department here. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of Harvey C. Johns
January 25, 1862
I personally know Dr. Johns, to be a most worthy gentleman; and far more than an ordinarily capable and energetic business man. I shall be very glad to appoint him as soon as it can consistently be done. A. LINCOLN Jan. 25, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

As Gov. Curtin is so anxious to have Col. D. B. Birney appointed a Brigadier General of Volunteers, let it be done. Jan. 25, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Sec. of War: Jan. 25. 1862.
Let Henry M. Judah of the Regular Army, be appointed a Brigadier General of Volunteers. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

President's General War Order No. 1
Executive Mansion, President's general} Washington, January 27, 1862.
War Order No. 1 } Ordered that the 22nd. day of February 1862, be the day for a general movement of the Land and Naval forces of the United States against the insurgent forces. That especially--- The Army at & about, Fortress Monroe. The Army of the Potomac. The Army of Western Virginia The Army near Munfordsville [ sic ], Ky. The Army and Flotilla at Cairo. And a Naval force in the Gulf of Mexico, be ready for a movement on that day. That all other forces, both Land and Naval, with their respective commanders, obey existing orders, for the time, and be ready to obey additional orders when duly given. That the Heads of Departments, and especially the Secretaries of War and of the Navy, with all their subordinates; and the General-in-Chief, with all other commanders and subordinates, of Land and Naval forces, will severally be held to their strict and full responsibilities, for the prompt execution of this order. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Draft  of Order sent to Army & Navy Departments respectively this day. A. LINCOLN Jan. 27. 1862. The  Secretary of War will enter this Order in his Department, and execute it to the best of his ability. A. LINCOLN Jan. 27, 1862.

To Henry A. Wise

If Flag-officer Foote, can find a suitable Boat which he can purchase at a fair price, let him purchase it at once. A. LINCOLN Jan. 27. 1862.

To John P. Hale
January 28, 1862
Capt. Dahlgren gave his views in this letter, at my request. I have so much confidence in him in Naval matters that I inclose it to you as Chairman of the Naval Committee. A. LINCOLN Jan. 28. 1862.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: January 28, 1862
I submit to the Senate for it's consideration, with a view to ratification, a Treaty of Extradition concluded by Mr. Corwin with the Mexican Government on the 11th. December, last. I also submit a Postal Convention concluded by that gentleman, at the same time, and a copy of his despatch of the 24th. of the same month, explanatory of the provisions of both these instruments, and the reasons for the non-ratification by Mexico of the Postal Convention concluded in this city on the 31st. July last, and approved by the Senate on the 6th. August. A copy of a letter from the Postmaster General to the Secretary of State in relation to Mr. Corwin's Postal Convention, is, also, herewith communicated. The advice of the Senate as to the expediency of accepting that Convention as a substitute for the one of the 31st. July, last, is requested. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington 28 January 1862.

Endorsement: Letter of James Speed

The letter I mentioned to you some time ago. Please read & return to me. A. LINCOLN Jan. 29, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir Jan. 29. 1862
Let Samuel D. Sturgis, of the Regular Army, be appointed a Brigadier General of Volunteers; and, if possible let the appointment take date of August 10th. 1861, corresponding with the battle of Springfield, or Wilson's creek, in which he done a conspicuous & honorable part. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement
[c. January 30, 1862]
Suggestions of members of Cabinet, made on request, upon proclamation of Jan. 30, 1862. Cabinet

To William H. Seward

If the within statement be correct, let Mr. Wampole be Consul at Amoor [Amur] River. A. LINCOLN Jan. 30, 1862.

To John Z. Goodrich
January 31, 1862
The bearer of this, Mr. Jesse R. Clark, is an old friend of mine, for some years residing in Illinois, now residing at Lawrence, Mass. and well spoken, of, as you see, by his neighbors there. If the Collector at Boston could find some employment for him I should be much obliged A. LINCOLN Jan. 31. 1862

President's Special War Order No. 1
Executive Mansion Presidents special} Washington January 31, 1862
War Order, No. 1. } Ordered that all the disposable force of the Army of the Potomac, after providing safely for the defense of Washington, be formed into an expedition, for the immediate object of siezing and occupying a point upon the Rail Road South Westward of what is known of Manassas Junction, all details to be in the discretion of the general-in-chief, and the expedition to move before, or on, the 22nd. day of February next. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 31, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: As a sequel to the correspondence on the subject, previously communicated, I transmit to Congress extracts from a despatch of the 20th. ultimo, from Mr. Adams, United States Minister at London, to the Secretary of State, and a copy of an instruction from Earl Russell to Lord Lyons, of the 10th. instant, relative to the removal of certain citizens of the United States from the British mail steamer Trent, by order of the Commander of the United States war steamer San Jacinto. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 31st. Jany. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Sec. of War Washington, January 31, 1862.
My dear Sir: It is my wish that the expedition commonly called the ``Lane Expedition'' shall be as much as has been promised at the Adjutant General's Office, under the supervision of Gen. McClellan, and not any more . I have not intended, and do not now intend that it shall be a great exhausting affair ; but a snug, sober column of 10,000 or 15,000. Gen. Lane has been told by me many times that he is under the command of Gen. Hunter, and assented to it as often as told. It was the distinct agreement between him & me when I appointed him, that he was to be under Hunter. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John F. Lee

Would it be proper for me to order a Court Martial, as within requested. A. LINCOLN Feb. 1. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 1, 1862
I wish an order, such as indicated within, to be made, so that justice, and honorable recognition, be extended to those who served on Gen. Sigel's staff. A. LINCOLN Feb. 1. 1862.

To Queen Victoria
February 1, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To Her Majesty Victoria, Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, &c., &c., &c., Sendeth Greeting! Great and Good Friend: By a letter from your son, His Royal Highness, the Prince of Wales, which has just been received, I am informed of the overwhelming affliction which has fallen upon Your Majesty, by the untimely death of His Royal Highness the late Prince Consort, Prince Albert, of Saxe Coburg. The offer of condolence in such cases is a customary ceremony, which has its good uses, though it is conventional, and may sometimes be even insincere. But I would fain have Your Majesty apprehend, on this occasion, that real sympathy can exist, as real truthfulness can be practised, in the intercourse of Nations. The People of the United States are kindred of the People of Great Britain. With all our distinct national interests, objects, and aspirations, we are conscious that our moral strength is largely derived from that relationship, and we think we do not deceive ourselves when we suppose that, by constantly cherishing cordial friendship and sympathy with the other branches of the family to which we belong, we impart to them not less strength than we derive from the same connection. Accidents, however, incidental to all States, and passions, common to all nations, often tend to disturb the harmony so necessary and so proper between the two countries, and to convert them into enemies. It was reserved for Your Majesty in sending your son, the Heir Apparent of the British Throne, on a visit among us, to inaugurate a policy destined to counteract these injurious tendencies, as it has been Your Majesty's manifest endeavor, through a reign already of considerable length and of distinguished success, to cultivate the friendship on our part so earnestly desired. It is for this reason that you are honored on this side of the Atlantic as a friend of the American People. The late Prince Consort was with sufficient evidence regarded as your counsellor in the same friendly relation. The American People, therefore, deplore his death and sympathize in Your Majesty's irreparable bereavement with an unaffected sorrow. This condolence may not be altogether ineffectual, since we are sure it emanates from only virtuous motives and natural affection. I do not dwell upon it, however, because I know that the Divine hand that has wounded, is the only one that can heal: And so, commending Your Majesty and the Prince Royal, the Heir Apparent, and all your afflicted family to the tender mercies of God, I remain Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, 1st. Feby., 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To William H. Herndon
Executive Mansion, Dear William: Washington, Feb. 3. 1862.
Yours of January 30th. is just received. Do just as you say about the money matters. As you well know, I have not time to write a letter of respectable length. God bless you, says Your friend A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Executive Mansion, Major General McClellan Washington, Feb. 3, 1862.
My dear Sir: You and I have distinct, and different plans for a movement of the Army of the Potomac---yours to be down the Chesapeake, up the Rappahannock to Urbana, and across land to the terminus of the Railroad on the York River---, mine to move directly to a point on the Railroad South West of Manassas. If you will give me satisfactory answers to the following questions, I shall gladly yield my plan to yours. 1st. Does not your plan involve a greatly larger expenditure of time , and money than mine? 2nd. Wherein is a victory more certain by your plan than mine? 3rd. Wherein is a victory more valuable by your plan than mine? 4th. In fact, would it not be less valuable, in this, that it would break no great line of the enemie's communications, while mine would? 5th. In case of disaster, would not a safe retreat be more difficult by your plan than by mine? Yours truly A. LINCOLN [ Memorandum accompanying Letter of President to General McClellan, dated February 3, 1862 ]  1. Suppose the enemy should attack us in force before we reach the Ocoquan, what? In view of the possibility of this, might it not be safest to have our entire force to move together from above the Ocoquan. 2. Suppose the enemy, in force, shall dispute the crossing of the Ocoquan, what? In view of this, might it not be safest for us to cross the Ocoquan at Colchester rather than at the village of Ocoquan? This would cost the enemy two miles more of travel to meet us, but would, on the contrary, leave us two miles further from our ultimate destination. 3. Suppose we reach Maple valley without an attack, will we not be attacked there, in force, by the enemy marching by the several roads from Manassas? and if so, what?

To Charles Rehm
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, February 3, 1862.
It gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your favour of the 29th January, accompanying copies of your ``National Union March.'' Permit me to thank you cordially for the honor done me, and the kind feeling evinced by you. I am very truly Your Obt Servt A. LINCOLN Chas Rehm Esq Govrs. Id. N.Y.

To the King of Siam
February 3, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Majesty Somdetch Phra Paramendr Maha Mongut, King of Siam, &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received Your Majesty's two letters of the date of February 14th., 1861. I have also received in good condition the royal gifts which accompanied those letters,---namely, a sword of costly materials and exquisite workmanship; a photographic likeness of Your Majesty and of Your Majesty's beloved daughter; and also two elephants' tusks of length and magnitude such as indicate that they could have belonged only to an animal which was a native of Siam. Your Majesty's letters show an understanding that our laws forbid the President from receiving these rich presents as personal treasures. They are therefore accepted in accordance with Your Majesty's desire as tokens of your good will and friendship for the American People. Congress being now in session at this capital, I have had great pleasure in making known to them this manifestation of Your Majesty's munificence and kind consideration. Under their directions the gifts will be placed among the archives of the Government, where they will remain perpetually as tokens of mutual esteem and pacific dispositions more honorable to both nations than any trophies of conquest could be. I appreciate most highly Your Majesty's tender of good offices in forwarding to this Government a stock from which a supply of elephants might be raised on our own soil. This Government would not hesitate to avail itself of so generous an offer if the object were one which could be made practically useful in the present condition of the United States. Our political jurisdiction, however, does not reach a latitude so low as to favor the multiplication of the elephant, and steam on land, as well as on water, has been our best and most efficient agent of transportation in internal commerce. I shall have occasion at no distant day to transmit to Your Majesty some token of indication of the high sense which this Government entertains of Your Majesty's friendship. Meantime, wishing for Your Majesty a long and happy life, and for the generous and emulous People of Siam the highest possible prosperity, I commend both to the blessing of Almighty God. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, February 3, 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Gov. Morton calls to-day, and asks to withdraw his recommendation of Col. Hazzard for a Brigadier General. AL. Feb. 3. 1862

To Lazarus W. Powell
Executive Mansion Hon. L. M. Powell Feb. 4, 1862
My dear Sir: I herewith return the letters and printed paper submitted by you in behalf of Mr. Samuel B. Churchill. While I would be glad to oblige you, I can not now interfere with the case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 4, 1862
The Third Section of the ``Act further to promote the efficiency of the Navy,'' approved 21 December 1861, provides: ``That the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall have the authority to detail from the retired list of the Navy for the command of Squadrons and single ships such officers as he may believe that the good of the service requires to be thus placed in command; and such officers may, if upon the recommendation of the President of the United States they shall receive a vote of thanks of Congress for their services and gallantry in action against an enemy, be restored to the active list and not otherwise.'' In conformity with this law Captain Samuel F. DuPont, of the Navy, was nominated to the Senate for continuance as the Flag Officer in command of the Squadron which recently rendered such important service to the Union in the expedition to the Coast of South Carolina. Believing that no occasion could arise which would more fully correspond with the intention of the law, or be more pregnant with happy influence as an example, I cordially recommend that Captain Samuel F. DuPont receive a vote of thanks of Congress for his services and gallantry, displayed in the capture of Forts Walker and Beauregard, commanding the entrance of Port Royal Harbor, on the 7 November 1861. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington City 4 February 1862.

Stay of Execution for Nathaniel Gordon
February 4, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, To all to whom these Presents shall come Greeting: Whereas, it appears that at a Term of the Circuit Court of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York held in the month of November A.D. 1861, Nathaniel Gordon was indicted and convicted for being engaged in the Slave Trade, and was by the said Court sentenced to be put to death by hanging by the neck, on Friday the 7th. day of February, A.D. 1862; And whereas, a large number of respectable citizens have earnestly besought me to commute the said sentence of the said Nathaniel Gordon to a term of imprisonment for life, which application I have felt it to be my duty to refuse; And whereas, it has seemed to me probable that the unsuccessful application made for the commutation of his sentence may have prevented the said Nathaniel Gordon from making the necessary preparation for the awful change which awaits him: Now, therefore, be it known, that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, have granted and do hereby grant unto him, the said Nathaniel Gordon, a respite of the above recited sentence, until Friday the twenty-first day of February, A.D. 1862, between the hours of twelve o'clock at noon and three o'clock in the afternoon of the said day, when the said sentence shall be executed. In granting this respite, it becomes my painful duty to admonish the prisoner that, relinquishing all expectation of pardon by Human Authority, he refer himself alone to the mercy of the common God and Father of all men. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto signed my name and caused the Seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this Fourth day of February A.D. 1862, and of the Independence of the United States the Eighty-sixth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN. WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 5, 1862
It has been my wish for some time that Dr. E. Boyd Pendleton of Va. be appointed a Surgeon of Volunteers. I still wish it to be done, if it can be done consistently. A. LINCOLN. Feb. 5, 1862.

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Sec. of Navy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Feb. 5, 1862.
Hon. Mr. Veree, of Penn. makes such representation, as to the Naval Agent, at Philadelphia, and a sort of factotum of his,---one Derringer---as makes me think your Department better look to it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Feb. 6, 1862
As you see, Gen. McClellan, approves the finding of the Court-Martial in the case of which the accompanying is a Copy of the Record. Please give me your opinion. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 7, 1862
In answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 5th instant, requesting a communication of any recent correspondence relating to the presentation of American citizens to the court of France, I transmit a copy of a despatch of the 14th ultimo, from the United States minister at Paris, to the Secretary of State, and of an instruction of Mr. Seward to Mr. Dayton, of the 3d instant. Washington, February 7, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
Major Genl. McClellan Executive Mansion, My dear Sir--- Washington, Feb, 8, 1862
Have you any farther news from the West? Have you heard from the Canal-boats? Have you determined, as yet, upon the contemplated movement we last talked of? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir Feb. 8, 1862
If there be a vacant majority in the Regular Army, not already promised, nor to which any officer is entitled by regular promotion, let it be given to Thomas E. Noell, of Missouri, now a Major in the State service. Yours truly A. LINCOLN P.S. Or a Captaincy either A.L.

To David Hunter and James H. Lane
Gen. Hunter Executive Mansion, Leavenworth, Kansas. Washington, Feb. 10, 1862.
My wish has been,---and is, to avail the government of the services of both Gen. Hunter and Gen. Lane; &, so far as possible, to personally oblige both. Gen. Hunter is the senior officer, and must command when they serve together; though, in so far as he can, consistently with the public service, and his own honor, oblige Gen. Lane, he will also oblige me. If they can not come to an amicable understanding, Gen. Lane must report to Gen. Hunter for duty, according to the rules, or decline the service. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
February 12, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives. I transmit to Congress a copy of a special Treaty between the United States and His Majesty the King of Hanover for the abolition of the State Dues, which was signed at Berlin on the 6th of November last. In this Treaty, already approved by the Senate and ratified on the part of the United States, it is stipulated that the sums specified in Articles III and IV to be paid to the Hanoverian Government, shall be paid at Berlin on the day of the exchange of the ratifications. I therefore recommend that seasonable provision be made to enable the Executive to carry this stipulation into effect. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, 12th February, 1862.

To George B. McClellan
February 14, 1862
Gen. McClellan, please see the bearer, who, with his Regiment, was forced back from the Burnside Expedition, because of their vessel drawing too much water. They are now at Anapolis, and wish to follow up the Expedition. Can they be provided to do so? Or, what disposition can be made of them? A. LINCOLN Feb. 14, 1862

To Salmon P. Chase
February 15, 1862
I shall be obliged if the Sec. of the Treasury will in his discretion give Mr. Pierce such instructions in regard to Port Royal contrabands as may seem judicious. A. LINCOLN Feb. 15, 1862

To Isabel II
February 15, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To Her Majesty Dona Isabel II, By the Grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy, Queen of Spain, &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 28th. of October, last, announcing that Her Royal Highness the Infanta Dona Maria Christina, spouse of His Royal Highness the Infante Don Sebastian Gabriel, had on the 20th. of the preceding August safely given birth to a Prince upon whom at the baptismal font had been bestowed the names of Francisco Maria Isabel Gabriel Pedro. I participate in the satisfaction which this happy event has afforded to Your Majesty's Royal Family, and offer my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping! Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, February 15, 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Isabel II
February 15, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To Her Majesty Dona Isabel II, By the Grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy, Queen of Spain, &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 30th. of October, last, conveying the melancholy tidings of the decease of Her Royal Highness the Infanta Dona Maria de la Concepcion Your Majesty's beloved daughter. I participate in the grief occasioned by this sad event, and offer to Your Majesty my sincere condolence. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping! Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, February 15, 1862.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
February 15, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States :--- The Third Section of the ``Act further to promote the efficiency of the Navy,'' approved 21st. December 1861, provides, ``That the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall have the authority to detail from the retired list of the Navy for the command of Squadrons and single ships such officers as he may believe that the good of the service requires to be thus placed in command; and such officers may, if upon the recommendation of the President of the United States, they shall receive a vote of thanks of Congress for their services and gallantry in action against an enemy, be restored to the active list and not otherwise.'' In conformity with this law Captain Louis M. Goldsborough, of the Navy, was nominated to the Senate for continuance as the Flag Officer in command of the North Atlantic Blockading Squadron, which recently rendered such important service to the Union in the expedition to the Coast of North Carolina. Believing that no occasion could arise which would more fully correspond with the intention of the law or be more pregnant with happy influence as an example, I cordially recommend that Captain Louis M. Goldsborough, receive a vote of thanks of Congress for his services and gallantry displayed in the combined attack of the Forces commanded by him and Brigadier General Burnside in the capture of Roanoke Island and the destruction of Rebel Gun Boats, on the 7th., 8th. and 10th. February 1862. Washington City, ABRAHAM LINCOLN 15 February 1862.

To Henry W. Halleck
Major General Halleck Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Feb. 16, 1862
You have Fort Donelson safe, unless Grant shall be overwhelmed from outside, to prevent which latter will, I think, require all the vigilance, energy, and skill of yourself & Buell, acting in full cooperation. Columbus will not get at Grant, but the the [ sic ] force from Bowling---Green will. They hold the Railroad from Bowling---Green to within a few miles of Donelson, with the Bridge at Clarksburg [Clarksville] undisturbed. It is unsafe to rely that they will not dare to expose Nashville to Buell. A small part of their force can retire slowly towards Nashville, breaking up the Railroad as they go, and keep Buell out of that city twenty days. Mean time Nashville will be abundantly defended by forces from all South & perhaps from here at Manassas. Could not a cavalry force from Gen. Thomas on the upper Cumberland, dash across, almost unresisted, and cut the Railroad at or near Knoxville, Tenn.? In the midst of a bombardment at Donnelson, why could not a Gunboat run up and destroy the Bridge at Clarksburg [Clarksville]? Our success or failure at Donnelson is vastly important; and I beg you to put your soul in the effort. I send a copy to Buell. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Sec. of War: Washington, Feb. 17, 1862
Some time ago I directed Henry M. Judah, of the regular Army, to be appointed a Brig. Genl. of volunteers. I understand my note on the subject, is lost or mislaid; and I now renew the direction. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William A. Newell
Hon. W. A. Newell, Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Feb. 18, 1862.
Your note on the other half of this sheet is exactly true so far as is within my power to know. Your advocacy of Col. Hatfield for a Brigadier-General has been earnest, without reservation, oft repeated, and persistent, so that I can and do know it was not in your power to do more for Col. Hatfield with me than you have done. You never urged Col. Allen, except with the express reservation that his appointment should in no wise interfere with Col. Hatfield. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

Proclamation for Celebration of Washington's Birthday
February 19, 1862
By the President of the United States. A Proclamation. It is recommended to the People of the United States that they assemble in their customary places of meeting for public solemnities on the twenty---second day of February instant, and celebrate the anniversary of the birth of the Father of His Country by causing to be read to them his immortal Farewell address. [ L.S.] Given under my hand and the seal of the United States at Washington, the nineteenth day of February, [L.S.] in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty---two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty---sixth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
February 25, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a copy of an instruction from Prince Gortchacow to Mr. de Stoeckl, the minister of his Imperial Majesty the Emperor of Russia, accredited to this government, and of a note of the Secretary of State to the latter, relative to the adjustment of the question between the United States and Great Britain, growing out of the removal of certain of our citizens from the British mail steamer Trent, by order of the commander of the United States war steamer San Jacinto. Washington, February 25, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
February 26, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: In transmitting to Congress the accompanying copy of two letters, bearing date the 14th of February, 1861, from his Majesty the Major King of Siam to the President of the United States, and of the President's answer thereto, I submit for their consideration the question as to the proper place of deposit of the gifts received with the royal letters referred to. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, February 26, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I should be much gratified for the appointment within requested to be made---if not possible immediately, at least before long. Feb. 26. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 27, 1862
Lieutenant-General Scott has advised me that, while he would cheerfully accept a commission as additional minister to Mexico, with a view to promote the interests of the United States and of peace, yet his infirmities are such that he could not be able to reach the capital of that country by any existing mode of travel, and he therefore deems it his duty to decline the important mission I had proposed for him. For this reason I withdraw the nomination in this respect heretofore submitted to the Senate. It is hardly necessary to add that the nomination was made without any knowledge of it on his part. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, February 27, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let Elliott Beardsley be appointed as within recommended. Feb. 27, 1862 A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 27, 1862
This, as is seen, is a most meritorious case; and I shall really be obliged, if the Secretary of War can and will find a situation---a clerkship, perhaps---for the ``little sergeant.'' A. LINCOLN Feb. 27, 1862.

Order Relating to Commercial Intercourse
By the President of the United States February 28, 1862
Considering that the existing circumstances of the country allow a partial restoration of Commercial intercourse between the inhabitants of those parts of the United States heretofore declared to be in insurrection, and the citizens of the loyal States of the Union; and exercising the authority and discretion confided to me by the Act of Congress, approved July 13th., 1861, entitled ``An Act further to provide for the collection of duties on imports, and for other purposes;'' I hereby license and permit such commercial intercourse in all cases within the Rules and Regulations which have been, or may be, prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury for the conducting and carrying on of the same, on the inland waters and ways of the United States ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington Feb. 28th. 1862.

Memorandum:Appointment of Samuel E. Gross
[March ?] 1862
West---Point Samuel E. Gross.---Mt. Carroll---Ills. Says he enlisted in vols.---is 19 in Nov. Is very anxious. Came all the way here by himself.

To Park Benjamin
My Dear Sir Executive Mansion March 1. 1862
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your kind favour of the 24 February; and I beg that you will accept the assurance of my sincere gratitude for your expression of friendly sympathy. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN Park Benjamin Esq

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 1. 1862.
Dr. Isaac I. Hayes, of Dr. Kane's Arctic expedition, and more recently of an Arctic expedition headed by himself, is an applicant for Brigade Surgeon; and I would like for him to be appointed at once, if consistent with the rules. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
March 3, 1862
To the House of Representatives of the United States I transmit herewith a communication of the Secretary of War, enclosing a report of the Adjutant General in answer to a Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 22d. of January 1862. Washington }[ABRAHAM LINCOLN] March 3. 1862 }

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: March 3, 1862
I transmit to the Senate a translation of a note addressed to the Secretary of State, on the 1st. instant, by General P. A. Herran,  Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Granadian Confederation, with a translation of the communication accompanying that note from the Special Commissioner of that Republic, together with a copy of a letter from the Special Commissioner of the United States of the 26th. ultimo, under the Convention of 10 September, 1857, setting forth the impracticability of disposing of the cases submitted to the Joint Commission now in session under the Convention within the period described therein. I recommend therefore, that the Senate consent to the extension of time for days from and after the expiration of the time limited by the Convention. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington 3 March, 1862.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March 3, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a copy of a despatch to the Secretary of State from the minister resident of the United States at Lisbon, concerning recent measures which have been adopted by the government of Portugal intended to encourage the growth and to enlarge the area of the culture of cotton in its African possessions. Washington, March 3, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March 3, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a translation of an instruction to the minister of his Majesty the King of Italy accredited to this government, and a copy of a note to that minister from the Secretary of State, relating to the settlement of the question arising out of the capture and detention of certain citizens of the United States, passengers on board the British steamer Trent, by order of Captain Wilkes, of the United States navy. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, March 3, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 3. 1862.
Let Irvin McDowell, Ambrose E. Burnside, Don Carlos Buell, John Pope, Samuel R. Curtis, Franz Sigel, John A. McClernand, Charles F. Smith, and Lewis Wallace, be appointed Major generals of volunteers. Also, let John Cook, Richard J. Oglesby, William H. L. Wallace[,] John McArthur, Jacob G. Lauman and John A. Logan, (all of whom fought at Fort Donnelson, with commissions of Colonels, but all except the last, commanded brigades) be appointed Brigadier generals of volunteers. Also, let Hiram G. Berry, of Maine, Hon. Orris S. Ferry, of Connecticut, and Hon. James Craig, of Missouri, be appointed Brigadier generals of volunteers. Please send me the formal nominations at once. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Green Adams
Hon. Green Adams Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 4, 1862.
Please send me the list of names desired to be commissioned, by the enclosed letters. Of course, what office each is to have, must be indicated. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Reply to Federico Barreda
March 4, 1862
The United States have no enmities, animosities, or rivalries, and no interests which conflict with the welfare, safety and rights or interests of any other nation. Their own prosperity, happiness and aggrandizement are sought most safely and advantageously through the preservation, not only of peace on their own part, but peace among all other nations. But while the United States are thus a friend to all other nations, they do not seek to conceal the fact that they cherish especial sentiments of friendship for, and sympathies with, those who, like themselves, have founded their institutions on the principle of the equal rights of men; and such nations, being more prominently neighbors of the United States, the latter are co-operating with them in establishing civilization and culture on the American continent. Such being the general principles which govern the United States in their foreign relations, you may be assured, sir, that in all things this government will deal justly, frankly, and, if it be possible, even liberally, with Peru, whose liberal sentiments towards us you have so kindly expressed.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 4. 1862.
Send me at once a nomination of Daniel Tyler of Connecticut as a Brigadier General of Volunteers. Let it date as of yesterday, so as to be part of the lot then sent to the Senate. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Whom it may concern Washington, March 4. 1862
Edward Burke, the bearer of this, was at service in this Mansion for several months now last past; and during all the time he appeared to me to be a competent, faithful, and very genteel man. I take no charge of the servants about the house; but I do not understand that Burke leaves because of any fault or misconduct. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: March 5, 1862
I submit to the Senate for its consideration a copy of a message addressed to that body by my immediate predecessor, on the 12th February, 1861, relating to the award made by the joint commission under the convention between the United States and Paraguay of the 4th February, 1859, together with the original ``journal of the proceeding'' of the commission, and a printed copy of the ``statements and arguments --- and for the Republic,'' and request the advice of the Senate as to the final acquiescence in, or rejection of, the award of the commissioner, by the Government of the United States. As the ``journal'' is an original document, pertaining to the archives of the Department of State, it is proper, when the Senate shall have arrived at a conclusion on the subject, that the volume be returned to the custody of the Secretary of State. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, 5 March, 1862.

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion My dear Sir March 5, 1862
Please summon the Cabinet to meet me here at 7 o'clock this evening. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Message to Congress
March 6, 1862
Fellow-citizens of the Senate, and House of Representatives, I recommend the adoption of a Joint Resolution by your honorable bodies which shall be substantially as follows: ``Resolved that the United States ought to co-operate with any state which may adopt gradual abolishment of slavery, giving to such state pecuniary aid, to be used by such state in it's discretion, to compensate for the inconveniences  public and private, produced by such change of system'' If the proposition contained in the resolution does not meet the approval of Congress and the country, there is the end; but if it does command such approval, I deem it of importance that the states and people immediately interested, should be at once distinctly notified of the fact, so that they may begin to consider whether to accept or reject it. The federal government would find it's highest interest in such a measure, as one of the most efficient means of self-preservation.  The leaders of the existing insurrection entertain the hope that this government will ultimately be forced to acknowledge the independence of some part of the disaffected region, and that all the slave states North of such part will then say ``the Union, for which we have struggled, being already gone, we now choose to go with the Southern section.'' To deprive them of this hope, substantially ends the rebellion; and the initiation of emancipation completely deprives them of it, as to all the states initiating it. The point is not that all the states tolerating slavery would very soon, if at all, initiate emancipation; but that, while the offer is equally made to all, the more Northern shall, by such initiation, make it certain  to the more Southern, that in no event, will the former ever join the latter, in their proposed confederacy. I say ``initiation'' because, in my judgment, gradual, and not sudden emancipation, is better for all. In the mere financial, or pecuniary view, any member of Congress,  with the census-tables and Treasury-reports before him, can readily see for himself how very soon the current expenditures of this war would purchase, at fair valuation, all the slaves in any named State. Such a proposition, on the part of the general government, sets up no claim of a right, by federal authority, to interfere with slavery within state limits, referring, as it does, the absolute  control of the subject, in each case, to the state and it's people, immediately interested. It is proposed as a matter of perfectly free choice with them.  In the annual message last December, I thought fit to say ``The Union must be preserved; and hence all indispensable means must be employed.'' I said this, not hastily, but deliberately. War has been made, and continues to be, an indispensable means to this end. A practical re-acknowledgement of the national authority would render the war unnecessary, and it would at once cease. If, however, resistance continues, the war must also continue; and it is impossible to foresee all the incidents, which may attend  and all the ruin which may follow  it. Such as may seem indispensable, or may obviously promise great efficiency towards ending the struggle, must and will come. The proposition now made, though an offer only, I hope it may be esteemed no offence to ask whether the pecuniary consideration tendered would not be of more value to the States and private persons concerned,  than are the institution, and property in it, in the present aspect of affairs.  While it is true that the adoption of the proposed resolution would be merely initiatory, and not within itself a practical measure, it is recommended in the hope that it would soon lead to important practical results. In full view of my great responsibility to my God, and to my  country, I earnestly  beg the attention of Congress and the people to the subject. ABRAHAM LINCOLN March 6. 1862.

To Edward Bates

Respectfully submitted to the Attorney General with the request of as early an examination as possible. A. LINCOLN March 7. 1862.

To the Senate
To the Senate Washington, D. C. of the United States. March 7 1862.
I transmit, herewith, for the constitutional action of the Senate, thereon, a Treaty concluded at Paola, Kansas, on the 18th day of August 1860, between Seth Clover, Commissioner, on the part of the United States, and the delegates of the united tribes of Kaskia and Peoria Piankeshaw and Wea Indians. I also transmit a communication, of the Secretary of the Interior, of the 6th instant, and accompanying papers from the Acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs in relation to the subject. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Executive Mansion, Hon. Sec. of State Washington, March 7, 1862.
My dear Sir: Mr. James F. B. Marshall, of Mass. is now with me on the question of the Honolulu Commissioner. It pains me some that this tilt for the place of Col. Baker's friend grows so fierce, now the Col. is no longer alive to defend him. I presume, however, we shall have no rest from it. Mr. Marshall appears to be a very intelligent gentleman, and well acquainted with the affairs of the Sandwich Islands. The California delegation also expect the place for some one of their citizens. In self-defence I am disposed to say ``Make a selection and send it to me.'' Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Respectfully submitted to the War Department with the remark that I think the appointment would be a good one. March 7. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let the Commission be vacated according to Senator Harlan's request. A. LINCOLN March 7. 1862.

To Gideon Welles
The Sec. of the Navy. March 7, 1862
Will oblige me by appointing Hanscum, Naval constructor at Boston if no valid objection is known one of the commissioners to examine River Boats. March 7th 1862--- A. LINCOLN

To James Cooper and Others
March 8, 1862
These two young men, Richard Middleton and Thomas F. Goodwin seem to have a very meritorious case; and I respectfully commend them to Gen. Cooper, and to others to whom this may be presented. A. LINCOLN March 8, 1862. Mr. Middleton states, he has heretofore been employed for several years on the Capitol. I shall be pleased if he can be again employed upon it.

Memorandum:Appointment of William H. Upham
[c. March 8, 1862]
Senator Doolittle wishes William H. Upham, appointed a cadet. He will be 20 next May, was wounded at Bull Run, the ball entering less than an inch from the left collar-bone & jugular, and coming out at his back the two scars being five inches apart.

President's General War Order No. 2
President's General} Executive Mansion War-Order, No. 2} Washington, March 8, 1862
Ordered 1st. That the Major General commanding the Army of the Potomac proceed forthwith to organize that part of said Army destined to enter upon active operations (including the reserve, but excluding the troops to be left in the fortifications about Washington) into four Army corps to be commanded according to seniority of rank as follows: 1st. Corps, to consist of four Divisions & to be commanded by Major General McDowell. 2nd. Corps, to consist of three Divisions, & to be commanded by Brigadier General E. V. Sumner. 3rd. Corps, to consist of three Divisions & to be commanded by Brigadier General Heintzelman 4th. Corps, to consist of three Divisions, & to be commanded by Brigadier General E. D. Keyes. 2. That the Divisions now commanded by the officers above assigned to the command of corps, shall be embraced in, and form parts of their respective corps. 3. The forces left for the defence of Washington will be placed in command of Brigadier General James Wadsworth, who shall also be Military Governor of the District of Columbia. 4. That this order be executed with such promptness and despatch as not to delay the commencement of the operations already directed to be undertaken by the Army of the Potomac. 5. A fifth Army Corps, to be commanded by Major General Banks will be formed from his own, and Gen. Shields, late Gen. Lander's Division. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

President's General War Order No. 3
President's General War} Executive Mansion Order No. 3} Washington, March 8, 1862.
Ordered, that no change of the base of operations of the Army of the Potomac shall be made without leaving in, and about Washington, such a force as, in the opinion of the General-in-chief, and the commanders of all the Army corps, shall leave said City entirely secure. That not more than two Army corps, (about fifty thousand troops) of said Army of the Potomac, shall be moved en route for a new base of operations until the navigation of the Potomac, from Washington to the Chesapeake bay shall be freed from enemies batteries and other obstructions, or, until the President shall hereafter give express permission. That any movement, as aforesaid, en route for a new base of operations, which may be ordered by the General-in-chief, & which may be intended to move upon the Chesapeake-bay, shall begin to move upon the bay as early as the 18th. day of March Inst.; and the General-in-chief shall be responsible that it so move as early as that day. Ordered that the Army and Navy co-operate in an immediate effort to capture the enemies batteries upon the Potomac between Washington and the Chesapeake-bay. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 8, 1862.
The within is from the governor of Illinois. I understand the seven additional batteries now sought are to be six-gun batteries; and the object is to mix them with the fourteen batteries they already have, so as to make each battery consist of four 6-pounders and two 12-pounders. I shall be very glad to have the requisition filled if it can be without detriment to the service. A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph G. Totten
Executive Mansion Dear Sir: Washington March 8, 1862.
I hereby appoint the following persons Cadets to the Military Academy at West Point for the year 1862: At Large. Edward W. Baker 	Barry 	Ill. Albert S. Bayless 	Flemingsburg 	Ky. William H. Upham 	 	Wis. Frederick A. Mahan 	 	N. Y. Henry Davis Wallen, Jr. 	 	Ga. Arthur Tracy Lee 	 	Mass. Edward Everett Sharp 	Danville 	Mo. Erasmus D. Gaines 	Freeport 	Ill. Francis Jones 	 	Pa. Charles Woodson Bates 	 	Mo. For the District of Columbia: Richard Cuyler Churchill 	 	D.C. Yours truly ABRAHAM LINCOLN Gen. J. G. Totten Chief Engineer Bureau.

To Henry J. Raymond
COPY. Private Executive Mansion, Hon. Henry J. Raymond: Washington, March 9, 1862.
My dear Sir: I am grateful to the New-York Journals, and not less so to the Times than to others, for their kind notices of the late special Message to Congress. Your paper, however, intimates that the proposition, though well-intentioned, must fail on the score of expense. I do hope you will reconsider this. Have you noticed the facts that less than one half-day's cost of this war would pay for all the slaves in Delaware, at four hundred dollars per head?---that eighty-seven days cost of this war would pay for all in Delaware, Maryland, District of Columbia, Kentucky, and Missouri at the same price? Were those states to take the step, do you doubt that it would shorten the war more than eighty seven days, and thus be an actual saving of expense. Please look at these things, and consider whether there should not be another article in the Times? Yours very truly, A. LINCOLN

To Don C. Buell
Washington, March 10, 1862.
General D. C. Buell: The evidence is very strong that the enemy in front of us here is breaking up and moving off. General McClellan is after him. Some part of the force may be destined to meet you. Look out and be prepared. I telegraphed Halleck, asking him to assist you, if needed. A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion Washington D.C. Hon. Sec. of Treasury. March 10, 1862.
My dear Sir. Thomas H. Campbell bearer of this, has several times been our auditor of State; and I personally know him to be an honest man, of thorough business capacity. He is here now to do something in adjusting the accounts of the State and U.S. growing out of the war. He is thoroughly disinterested, not even receiving pay for what he does. No man can be more safely trusted. I beg you to afford him all proper facilities, with perfect assurance that no confidence reposed in him will be abused. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

Check to ``Tad'' Lincoln
No. 79 Washington, D.C. March 10, 1862
RIGGS & Co. Pay to ``Tad'' (when he is well enough to present) or bearer Five ----- Dollars $5/00 A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Sec. of Navy Executive Mansion My dear Sir March 10, 1862
I have just seen Lieut. Worden, who says the ``Monitor'' could be boarded and captured very easily---first, after boarding, by wedging the turret, so that it would not turn, and then by pouring water in her & drowning her machinery. He is decidedly of opinion she should not go sky-larking up to Norfolk. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

President's War Order No. 3
President's War} Executive Mansion Order, No. 3 } Washington, March 11, 1862.
Major General McClellan having personally taken the field at the head of the Army of the Potomac, until otherwise ordered, he is relieved from the command of the other Military departments, he retaining command of the Department of the Potomac. Ordered further that the two departments now under the respective commands of Generals Halleck, and Hunter together with so much of that under General Buell as lies West of a North and South line indefinitely drawn through Knoxville, Tennessee, be consolidated, and designated the Department of the Mississippi; and that, until otherwise ordered, Major General Halleck have command of said department. Ordered also, that the country West of the Department of the Potomac, and East of the Department of the Mississippi be a Military department to be called the Mountain Department; and that the same be commanded by Major General Fremont. That all the commanders of departments, after the receipt of this order by them respectively, report severally and directly to the Secretary of War, and that prompt, full, and frequent reports will be expected of all and each of them. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

There are potent reasons why this young man should be made a Lieut. if it can be done consistently with the public service March 11, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Sec. of Navy Executive Mansion My dear Sir March 11. 1862
Comodore Foote's telegram of the 10th. has just been sent me. Please have the requisition made in it, filled as soon as possible. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dahlgren

Capt. Dahlgren, please see the bearer. A. LINCOLN March 12, 1862.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: March 12, 1862
In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of the 11th instant, requesting a ``copy of any correspondence on the records or files of the Department of State in regard to railway systems in Europe,'' I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, and the papers by which it was accompanied. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, March 12, 1862.

To Hiram Barney
March 13, 1862
I do not remember Curtis H. Hall, the writer of the within; but Daniel E. Ruckel, mentioned, was a dear friend of mine; and any favor done a member of his family would be appreciated by me. March 13, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Henry A. Brown
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, March 13, 1862.
I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of three engravings of General McClellan, two of which I have sent as you requested. Please accept my thanks for the present. The Engraving is very beautifully executed, and the likeness is perfect. I have the honor to be Your Obt Servt A. LINCOLN H. A. Brown Esq 35 Winter St

To George B. McClellan
War Department, March 13, 1862.
The President having considered the plan of operations agreed upon by yourself and the commanders of army corps, makes no objection to the same, but gives the following directions as to its execution: 1st. Leave such force at Manassas Junction as shall make it entirely certain that the enemy shall not repossess himself of that position and line of communication. 2d. Leave Washington secure. 3d. Move the remainder of the force down the Potomac, choosing a new base at Fortress Monroe, or anywhere between here and there; or, at all events, move such remainder of the army at once in pursuit of the enemy by some route. EDWIN M. STANTON, Seven o'clock, forty minutes. Secretary of War. Major General George B. McClellan.

To William H. Seward

If the Consulate named within stands as is assumed, I shall be glad for Dr. Bettelheim to have it. A. LINCOLN March 13, 1862

Speech to a Massachusetts Delegation
March 13, 1862.
I thank you, Mr. TRAIN, for your kindness in presenting me with this truly elegant and highly creditable specimen of the handiwork of the mechanics of your State of Massachusetts, and I beg of you to express my hearty thanks to the donors. It displays a perfection of workmanship which I really wish I had time to acknowledge in more fitting words, and I might then follow your idea that it is suggestive, for it is evidently expected that a good deal of whipping is to be done. But, as we meet here socially, let us not think only of whipping rebels, or of those who seem to think only of whipping negroes, but of those who seem to think only of whipping negroes, but of those pleasant days which it is to be hoped are in store for us, when, seated behind a good pair of horses, we can crack our whips and drive through a peaceful, happy and prosperous land. With this idea, gentlemen, I must leave you for my business duties.

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 13, 1862
It is said I some time ago recommended William P. Graves of Ky, for a Lieutenancy in the Army, at the particular instance of Hon. Mr. Mallory, and that his name was placed on the list at the War Department, and he notified by Mr. Mallory that he was appointed. It now appears his name was taken off the list. Under these circumstances, I wish him appointed at once if there is any vacancy. A. LINCOLN March 13. 1862.

To Orville H. Browning

Will Mr. Senator Browning please see Mr. Muller, who I believe to be a correct & honest man. Give him a fair show, if possible. March 14, 1862 A LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Genl. McClellan March 14, 1862.
As Gen Richardson takes Gen. Sumner's old Division, can he have an exchange of Brigades so as to take his old Brigade with him? EDWIN M STANTON Sec of War

To James A. McDougal
Hon. James A. McDougal Executive Mansion U.S. Senate Washington, March 14, 1862
My dear Sir: As to the expensiveness of the plan of gradual emancipation with compensation, proposed in the late Message, please allow me one or two brief suggestions. Less than one half-day's cost of this war would pay for all the slaves in Delaware at four hundred dollars per head: Thus, all the slaves in Delaware, by the Census of 1860, are 	1798 400 --------- Cost of the slaves, 	$ 719,200. One day's cost of the war 	``2,000,000. Again, less than eighty seven days cost of this war would, at the same price, pay for all in Delaware, Maryland, District of Columbia, Kentucky, and Missouri. Thus, slaves in Delaware 	1798 `` `` Maryland 	87,188 `` `` Dis. of Col. 	3,181 `` `` Kentucky 	225,490 `` `` Missouri 	114,965 ----------- 432,622 400 ----------- Cost of the slaves 	$173,048,800 Eightyseven days' cost of the war 	``174,000,000. Do you doubt that taking the initiatory steps on the part of those states and this District, would shorten the war more than eighty-seven days, and thus be an actual saving of expense? A word as to the time and manner of incurring the expence. Suppose, for instance, a State devises and adopts a system by which the institution absolutely ceases therein by a named day---say January 1st. 1882. Then, let the sum to be paid to such state by the United States, be ascertained by taking from the Census of 1860, the number of slaves within the state, and multiplying that number by four hundred---the United States to pay such sum to the state in twenty equal annual instalments, in six per cent. bonds of the United States. The sum thus given, as to time and manner , I think would not be half as onerous, as would be an equal sum, raised now , for the indefinite prossecution of the war; but of this you can judge as well as I. I inclose a Census-table for your convenience. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To John G. Nicolay
Memorandum. Executive Mansion March 14. 1862
To-day I nominated the ten cadets at large and one for the District of Columbia---for this year. I have concluded that the next three I nominate shall be as follows--- One for Gov. Seward. One for Mr. Sec. Welles One for H. T. Duncan of Kentucky, his candidate's name being ``Thomas Collins, Timberlake'' I wish Mr. Nicolay to keep this, and call my attention to it whenever I have an appointment to make. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: March 14, 1862
With reference to my recent Message on the subject of claims of citizens of the United States on the Government of Paraguay, I transmit a copy of three Memorials of the Claimants, and of their closing argument in the case, together with extracts from a despatch from Mr. Bowlin,  the late Commissioner of the United States to that Country. These extracts show that President Lopez  offered and expected to pay a large sum of money as a compromise of the claims. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington 14th. March 1862.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March , 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives. I submit to Congress the accompanying copy of a correspondence between the Secretary of State, the Danish Charge d'Affaires and the Secretary of the Navy, concerning the case of the barque ``Jorgen Lorentzen,'' a Danish vessel seized, on her voyage from Rio Janeiro to Havana, by the United States ship ``Morning Light,'' and subsequently released. I recommend the appropriation of the amount of the award of the referees. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, March , 1862.

To Montgomery C. Meigs
Gen. Meigs Executive Mansion March 15. 1862
My dear Sir The bearer of this---George C. Bestor---is my friend. Please look at his model of Boat, before letting boat-contracts. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State. Executive Mansion. March 15. 1862.
My dear Sir, I am very glad of your note saying ``recent despatches from him'' (Dryer at Honolulu,) ``are able, judicious, and loyal'' and that if I agree we will leave him there. I am glad to agree so long as the public interest does not seem to require his removal. Yours truly--- A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion Washington, Hon. Sec. of War--- March 15, 1862.
My dear Sir It is represented to me that Messrs. Hedden & Hoey had a contract with the government, closed on the 26th. of October last, to deliver fifty thousand arms by the 15th. of the then next January---that within the time they delivered twenty-eight thousand which were accepted and paid for---that, not on time , but ten days after time, they were ready, and offered to deliver the remaining twenty two thousand, which were refused simply on the question of time. If this statement be true, and these men acted in good faith, I think they should not be ruined by the transaction, but that the guns should be accepted & paid for. Of course I understand the principle of strict law, would not oblige the govt. to take them, even if it were an individual. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

This comes from Wilmington, Delaware; and is respectfully submitted to the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN March. 15. 1862.

To Edward Bates
March 18, 1862
Senator Nesmith concurring with the writer of the within, as he tells me [he] does, the Attorney General will please send me a nomination for William H. Bennett, as Marshal of Oregon March. 18. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 18, 1862
Let the removal & appointment within requested by Senators Pomeroy & Lane be made, unless there be some reason to the contrary unknown to me. A. LINCOLN March 18. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
United States Military Telegraph, Head Quarters Army of the Potomac, Washington, D.C., March 18, 1862.
In going to Fortress-Monroe, Gen. McClellan gets into Gen. Wool's Department. He must not be interfered with by Gen. Wool. Yet I do not wish Gen. Wool's feelings hurt, and I am ready to make him a Major Genl. if it will do any good.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 19, 1862.
My Dear Sir: Messrs. Hedden & Hoey having had a contract with the United States government, closed on the 26th day of November last, to deliver fifty thousand arms to the government by the 15th day of January then next, upon specified terms and conditions, and having actually delivered above twenty-eight thousand within the time, which were accepted and paid for, and having been ready and offered to deliver the remainder, not within, but about ten days after, the contract time, which were refused solely on the question of time, and they having acted in good faith, and the arms being still needed by the government, I think fit to order that the question of time be waived by the government, and that the arms be accepted, if again tendered in conformity to the contract in all respects. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN. Hon. Secretary of War.

To Samuel B. Tobey
Executive Mansion, Dr. Samuel Boyd Tobey: Washington, March 19, 1862.
My dear Sir: A domestic affliction, of which doubtless you are informed, has delayed me so long in making acknowledgment for the very kind and appropriate letter, signed, on behalf, and by direction of a Meeting of the Representatives of the Society of Friends for New-England, held at Providence, Rhode Island the 8th. of second month 1862, by Samuel Boyce, clerk, and presented to me by yourself and associates. Engaged, as I am, in a great war, I fear it will be difficult for the world to understand how fully I appreciate the principles of peace, inculcated in this letter, and everywhere, by the Society of Friends. Grateful to the good people you represent for their prayers in behalf of our common country, I look forward hopefully to an early end of war, and return of peace. Your obliged friend A. LINCOLN

To Francis H. Peirpoint
Hon. F. H. Peirpoint Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 20, 1862.
Yours of the 14th. received. Make haste slowly. Things are improving by time. Draw up your proclamation carefully, and, if you please, let me see it before issuing. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March 20, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: The third Section of the ``Act further to promote the efficiency of the Navy,'' approved 21 December 1861, provides, ``That the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall have the authority to detail from the Retired List of the Navy for the command of Squadrons and single ships such Officers as he may believe that the good of the service requires to be thus placed in command; and such Officers may, if upon the recommendation of the President of the United States they shall receive a vote of thanks of Congress for their services and gallantry in action against an enemy, be restored to the Active List and not otherwise.'' In conformity with this law Captain Samuel F. DuPont, of the Navy, was nominated to the Senate for continuance as the Flag Officer in command of the Squadron which recently rendered such important service to the Union in the Expedition to the coasts of South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. Believing that no occasion could arise which would more fully correspond with the intention of the law or be more pregnant with happy influence as an example, I cordially recommend that Captain Samuel F. DuPont receive a vote of thanks of Congress for his services and gallantry, displayed in the capture, since the 21st. December 1861, of various points on the coasts of Georgia and Florida, particularly Brunswick, Cumberland Island and Sound, Amelia Island, the towns of St. Mary's, St. Mary's [ sic ] St. Augustine and Jacksonville, and Fernandina. Washington City, ABRAHAM LINCOLN 20 March 1862.

To William H. Seward
Secretary of State: March 20, 1862.
Please read this and speak with me about [it] at our next interview. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion March 20. 1862.
My dear Sir: Let George W. B. Tompkins, of New-York, be appointed a Brigadier General of volunteers. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major General Halleck, Washington, St. Louis, Mo. March 21. 1862.
Please suspend the order sending Gen. Denver to Kansas until you hear from the Secretary of War, or myself. A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Irvin McDowell
My dear Madam Executive Mansion March 21. 1862.
Gen. McDowell did me the honor yesterday to enquire when you could see Mrs. L. If you please she will see you to-day at 2.0'clock. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
Major General Fremont Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Washington, D.C. March 22. 1862.
This will introduce my friend, Col. Thomas W. Sweeney, of Philadelphia, who has already done some service with volunteers, and is a gentleman of great intelligence and good principles. He would be glad to serve on your staff; but I do not know whether that is possible. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 22, 1862
I personally know Gen. Palmer, and John Condit Smith; and as the former wants the latter for a Quarter-Master, let the appointment be made. A. LINCOLN March. 22. 1862.

To Horace Greeley
Private Hon. Horace Greeley--- Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 24, 1862.
Your very kind letter of the 16th. to Mr. Colfax, has been shown me by him. I am grateful for the generous sentiments and purposes expressed towards the administration. Of course I am anxious to see the policy proposed in the late special message, go forward; but you have advocated it from the first, so that I need to say little to you on the subject. If I were to suggest anything it would be that as the North are already for the measure, we should urge it persuasively , and not menacingly , upon the South. I am a little uneasy about the abolishment of slavery in this District, not but I would be glad to see it abolished, but as to the time and manner of doing it. If some one or more of the border-states would move fast, I should greatly prefer it; but if this can not be in a reasonable time, I would like the bill to have the three main features---gradual---compensation---and vote of the people---I do not talk to members of congress on the subject, except when they ask me. I am not prepared to make any suggestion about confiscation. I may drop you a line hereafter. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion My dear Sir March 24, 1862
Let Ward B. Burnett be appointed a Brigadier General of volunteers. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Respectfully submitted to the Attorney General with a strong inclination on my part to grant the pardon requested March 25. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To John F. Lee

I wish to grant the suspension within requested. Will the Judge Advocate please carry it into effect. A. LINCOLN March 25. 1862.

To John F. Lee
March 25, 1862
I wish to grant a pardon in this case, and will be obliged to the Judge Advocate of the Army, if he will inform me as to the way in which it is to be done. A. LINCOLN March 25. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton

The Vice President leaves this with me; & I hope he can be obliged. March 25. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion March 25. 1862
Sir Send me a nomination of Amiel W. Whipple, as a Brigadier General of volunteers. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March 26, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit a copy of a communication of the 21st of December last, addressed to the Secretary of State by the governor of the Territory of Nevada, and commend to the particular attention of Congress those parts of it which show that further legislation is desirable for the public welfare in that quarter. Washington, March 26, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War please see the bearer Rev. Mr. Jerome. March 26. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 26, 1862
I understand a requisition has been made by Governor Yates, according to the memorandum at the bottom of this contract, and that the requisition is refused. Will the Secretary of War please tell me why is this? A. LINCOLN. March 26, 1862.

To George D. Ramsay

Col. Ramsay, please find work for the bearer if possible. He will tell you what he can do. A. LINCOLN March 27, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please send me a nomination of William B. Lebo as a commissary of subsistence. A. LINCOLN March. 27. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 27, 1862
I wish Major James B. M. Potter, to be appointed a Paymaster in the Regular Army so soon as it can be done without interference with any former recommendation of mine. Please look on the other side of this scrap. A. LINCOLN March 27, 1862.

To Henry B. Whipple
Executive Mansion, Washington, Right Reverend Sir March 27, 1862.
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your esteemed favour of the 6th of March and to state in reply that I have commended the matter of which it treats to the special attention of the Secretary of the Interior. I have &c &c Your Obt Servt A. LINCOLN H.B. WHIPPLE Bishop of Minnesota

To George B. McClellan

Gen. McClellan, please see the bearer, Hon. J. S. Greene, of Mo. He will tell his own story. Oblige him, if you consistently can. March. 28. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
March 28, 1862
I believe Dr. Evans has already been appointed Governor of Colorado. If not, let it be done at once, while, at all events, the within is a good voucher to place on file. A. LINCOLN March. 28. 1862.

To Joseph Smith, John Lenthall, Edward Hartt and Benjamin F. Isherwood
Washington March 28. 1862
To Com. Smith, Constructor Lenthall, Constructor Hart and Engineer in Chief Isherwood Commissioners to examine Plans and award contracts for building Western Gun-Boats. Gentlemen Capt. Joseph Brown is well known to me, as one of the most successful Boat Builders on the Western Waters having built some of the finest, as well as the fastest Boats on the Mississippi River, & he is also a man of great energy. The commission will do me a personal favor, as well as the country at large by giving the plans presented by him, that attention, which I have no doubt thier merits entitle them to. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion March 28. 1862.
Sir Let Col. Charles Devens, of Massachusetts be appointed a Brigadier General of Volunteers. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Pass for James F. Harney

Let Mr. J. F. Harney, bearer of this, proceed to Gen. Wool, at Fortress Monroe. A. LINCOLN March 29. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion March 29. 1862
Sir: I really wish Jesse W. Fell, of Illinois, to be appointed a Paymaster in the Regular Army, at farthest, as early as the 1st. of July 1862. I wish nothing to interfere with this; and I have so written as much as two months ago, I think. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward L. Baker
E. L. Baker, Esq Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington. March 31. 1862.
Your note to Mr. Edwards, together with that from the War Department to yourself, has been handed to me by your brother John.  For me to appoint ``Joe''  to the Army, and then let him resign his present position is what is objectionable, because it is a substantial transfer. The objection is the setting of examples by which every body in all arms of the service, are set to studying whether they can not squirm round into a position more satisfactory to themselves. A rule, to cut off this, is a necessity. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Private Major General McClellan Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 31, 1862.
This morning I felt constrained to order Blenker's Division to Fremont; and I write this to assure you that I did so with great pain, understanding that you would wish it otherwise. If you could know the full pressure of the case, I am confident you would justify it---even beyond a mere acknowledgment that the Commander-in-chief, may order what he pleases. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: March 31, 1862
I transmit to the Senate, for its consideration with a view to ratification, a treaty of commerce and navigation between the United States and the Ottoman Empire, signed at Constantinople on the 25th. of last month. Extracts from a despatch of the same date upon the subject of the treaty, from Mr. Morris, the United States Minister at Constantinople, to the Secretary of State, are also herewith communicated. It will be noticed that the exchange of ratifications is to take place within three months from the date of the instrument. This renders it desirable that the Senate should decide in regard to it as soon as this may be convenient; for, if that decision should be favorable, the ratification of this Government must reach Constantinople prior to the expiration of the three months adverted to. Washington, 31st. March, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

The Secretary of War please discharge this gentleman's son, on such terms (parol, or oath of allegiance) as he (the Sec.) sees fit March 31. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph G. Totten

Will Gen. Totten please look over this, and the accompanying drawings, & give me his opinion of them. A. LINCOLN April 1. 1862.

To Michael Crock
My dear Sir Executive Mansion April 2. 1862
Allow me to thank you in behalf of my little son for your present of White Rabbits. He is very much pleased with them. Yours truly ABRAHAM LINCOLN Michael Crock Esq 860 N Fourth St. Philada.

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 2, 1862
I would suggest that Hon. Stephen T. Logan of Springfield, Illinois, and Col. James Mitchell. . . be appointed as commissioners to examine into claims, etc. at Cairo. . . I would also suggest that John R. Shepley, Esq. of St. Louis be selected as attorney to the said commission.

To Henry W. Halleck
Majr. Genl. Halleck Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, April 3. 1862.
Col. James A. Barret, with a Cavalry Regiment now at St. Louis, wishes to be ordered to New-Mexico. Let him go, if, in your discretion, you think it not inconsistent with the public interest. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Maj Gen Halleck Washington Saint Louis Mo. April 3. 1862
Your despatch in regard to Col. Barret's regiment is received. Use your own judgement in the matter. A. LINCOLN.

To Montgomery C. Meigs
April 3, 1862
I do not personally know Capt. Eddy, so as to be able to ask a personal favor for him: yet I protest now, as heretofore, that my asking to have him relieved from duty. . . shall, to no extent, be set down to his disadvantage. I neither know , nor have allowed myself to believe anything against him. And I shall be glad for you to so place him that he may not be able to think that he has suffered any by my action .

To William H. Seward

Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of State, Mr. Bennett, the Delegate, presents this & is for the appointment. April 3. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, April 3. 1862
The Secretary of War will order that one, or the other of the corps, of Gen. McDowell and Gen. Sumner, remain in front of Washington until further orders from the Department,---to operate at, or in the direction of Ma[na]ssas junction, or otherwise as occasion may require; that the other corps, not so ordered to remain, go forward to Gen. McClellan as speedily as possible; that Gen. McClellan commence his forward movement from his new base at once; and that such incidental modifications as the foregoing may render proper, be also made. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of War, with the request that the appointment be made so soon as it consistently can. April 3. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the whole, or any part of the within request of Gen. Cook can consistently be complied with, let it be done. A. LINCOLN April 3. 1862.

To Henry W. Halleck
Major Gen. Halleck Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, April 4, 1862.
I am sorry to learn that, after all, Gen. Denver has gone to Kansas. Can not Gen. Davies go there. There is a hard pressure on me in this matter. A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery C. Meigs
April 4, 1862
Q. M. General, please let the bearer, Geo. C. Bestor, withdraw the papers of Lt. Ferguson.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If Mr. Clemens can be sent to Gen. McClernand, on the terms indicated, let it be done. A. LINCOLN April 4, 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 4, 1862
The within I know to be a genuine letter of the late Col. Baker. The young man has not been appointed; but he must be as soon as he consistently can A. LINCOLN April 4. 1862.

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: April 5, 1862
In compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives of yesterday, requesting any information which may have been received at the Department of State showing the system of revenue and finance now existing in any foreign country, I transmit a copy of a recent despatch from Mr. Pike, the United States Minister at the Hague. This is understood to be the only information on the subject of the resolution, recently received, which has not been made public. [ABRAHAM LINCOLN]  Washington, 5th. April, 1862.

To George B. McClellan
United States Military Telegraph. Received Apl 6th. 1862.
To Maj. Gen McClellan From Washington Apl 6th. If you wish anything from Mr Short  in the way of fire shells or the like telegraph to the Department or to me designating what it is A LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Majr. Genl. McClellan Washington, Fortress Monroe--- April 6. 1862. [8 P.M.]
Yours of 11. A.M. to-day received. Sec. of War informs me that the forwarding of transportation, amunition, & Woodburys, brigade, under your orders, is not, and will not be interfered with. You now have over one hundred thousand troops, with you independent of Gen. Wool's command. I think you better break the enemies' line from York-town to Warwick River, at once. They will probably use time , as advantageously as you can A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

Let Samuel H. Elbert, of Nebraska be appointed Secretary of Colorado, in place of --- Weld, resigned A. LINCOLN April 7, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 7, 1862
Hon. John A. Gurley says there is a necessity of this appointment, owing to the condition of things at Cincinnati; and that the Sec. of War is willing to make it, if I consent. If so, I consent. One appointee  at Cincinnati, resigns I understand. A. LINCOLN April. 7. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Discharge this boy A. LINCOLN April 7, 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 7 [8?], 1862
Respectfully submitted to the War Department. I personally know Mr. Manly to be a good man. The within are excellent, and ample recommendations. His application has been before the Department half a year, and he should be appointed a Quarter-Master, so soon as it can consistently be done. A. LINCOLN April 7 [8?], 1862.

To Henry W. Halleck
Major General Halleck Executive Mansion Saint Louis Mo:	Washington, April 9, 1862.
If the rigor of the confinement of Magoffin at Alton, is endangering his life, or materially impairing his health, I wish it mitigated so far as it can be, consistently with his safe detention. A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan. Washington, My dear Sir. April 9. 1862
Your despatches complaining that you are not properly sustained, while they do not offend me, do pain me very much. Blencker's Division was withdrawn from you before you left here; and you knew the pressure under which I did it, and, as I thought, acquiesced in it---certainly not without reluctance. After you left, I ascertained that less than twenty thousand unorganized men, without a single field battery, were all you designed to be left for the defence of Washington, and Manassas Junction; and part of this even, was to go to Gen. Hooker's old position. Gen. Banks' corps, once designed for Manassas Junction, was diverted, and tied up on the line of Winchester and Strausburg, and could not leave it without again exposing the upper Potomac, and the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. This presented, (or would present, when McDowell and Sumner should be gone) a great temptation to the enemy to turn back from the Rappahanock, and sack Washington. My explicit order that Washington should, by the judgment of all the commanders of Army corps, be left entirely secure, had been neglected. It was precisely this that drove me to detain McDowell. I do not forget that I was satisfied with your arrangement to leave Banks at Mannassas Junction; but when that arrangement was broken up, and nothing was substituted for it, of course I was not satisfied. I was constrained to substitute something for it myself. And now allow me to ask ``Do you really think I should permit the line from Richmond, via Mannassas Junction, to this city to be entirely open, except what resistance could be presented by less than twenty thousand unorganized troops?'' This is a question which the country will not allow me to evade. There is a curious mystery about the number of the troops now with you. When I telegraphed you on the 6th. saying you had over a hundred thousand with you, I had just obtained from the Secretary of War, a statement, taken as he said, from your own returns, making 108,000 then with you, and en route to you. You now say you will have but 85,000, when all en route to you shall have reached you. How can the discrepancy of 23,000 be accounted for? As to Gen. Wool's command, I understand it is doing for you precisely what a like number of your own would have to do, if that command was away. I suppose the whole force which has gone forward for you, is with you by this time; and if so, I think it is the precise time for you to strike a blow. By delay the enemy will relatively gain upon you---that is, he will gain faster, by fortifications and re-inforcements , than you can by re-inforcements alone. And, once more let me tell you, it is indispensable to you that you strike a blow. I am powerless to help this. You will do me the justice to remember I always insisted, that going down the Bay in search of a field, instead of fighting at or near Mannassas, was only shifting, and not surmounting, a difficulty---that we would find the same enemy, and the same, or equal, intrenchments, at either place. The country will not fail to note---is now noting---that the present hesitation to move upon an intrenched enemy, is but the story of Manassas repeated. I beg to assure you that I have never written you, or spoken to you, in greater kindness of feeling than now, nor with a fuller purpose to sustain you, so far as in my most anxious judgment, I consistently can. But you must act . Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum

What possible injury can this lad work upon the cause of this great Union? I say let him go. A. LINCOLN. April 10, 1862.

Proclamation of Thanksgiving for Victories
April 10, 1862
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. It has pleased Almighty God to vouchsafe signal victories to the land and naval forces engaged in suppressing an internal rebellion, and at the same time to avert from our country the dangers of foreign intervention and invasion. It is therefore recommended to the People of the United States that, at their next weekly assemblages in their accustomed places of public worship which shall occur after notice of this proclamation shall have been received, they especially acknowledge and render thanks to our Heavenly Father for these inestimable blessings; that they then and there implore spiritual consolations in behalf of all who have been brought into affliction by the casualties and calamities of sedition and civil war, and that they reverently invoke the Divine Guidance for our national counsels, to the end that they may speedily result in the restoration of peace, harmony, and unity throughout our borders, and hasten the establishment of fraternal relations among all the countries of the earth. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S] Done at the City of Washington, this tenth day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-sixth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: April 10, 1862
I transmit to the Senate, for its consideration, with a view to ratification, a treaty between the United States and Her Britannic Majesty, for the suppression of the slave trade. A copy of the correspondence between the Secretary of State and Lord Lyons, on the subject of the treaty, is also herewith transmitted. Washington, 10th. April, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Richard Yates and William Butler
Hon. R. Yates, & Wm. Butler Washington, Springfield, Ills. April 10. 1862
I fully appreciate Gen. Pope's splendid achievements with their invaluable results; but you must know that Major Generalships in the Regular Army, are not as plenty as blackberries. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of John C. Robinson
[c. April 11, 1862]
To-day Mr. Duell, of New-York, personally asks to have Col. John C. Robinson, appointed a Brig. Genl. Resides in N.Y. & is W.P. Says Maryland men are for him. Hon. Mr. Calvert personally calls and endorses.

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 11, 1862
Col. Harvey Brown wishes his brevet of date, Nov. 22nd 1861, be conferred to take date as of the 16th of April 1861---the day on which he relieved Fort Pickens. If this be at all admissable, let it be done.

To William H. Seward

These are excellent, and ample recommendations; and I hope something worthy of the applicant may be found for him ere long. April 12, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

Sec. of State, please see the bearer, Miss Alice Lightner. April 12, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Whom it may concern. Washington, April 12, 1862
Mr. Charles C. Lathrop, bearer of this, is vouched to me as a worthy and loyal gentleman; He wishes to serve as a volunteer aid to some of our generals, and I am quite willing for him to do so, with any one of them who may see fit to avail himself of his services. A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: April 14, 1862
In compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 3d ultimo, requesting information in regard to the present condition of Mexico, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied. Washington, April 14, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Memorandum Concerning Stephen Baker
[April 15---May 3, 1862?]
Hon. Mr. Baker, writer of the within, says he has had no appointment, little or large, from his District, except the local ones, and he particularly wishes these. I desire that he may be obliged. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To James W. Ripley
April 15, 1862
What reason is there that the appraisement made by Major Hagner, and adopted & acted upon by Capt. Crispin, should not stand, so far as it went A. LINCOLN April 15, 1862.

To the Senate
To the Senate Washington, D.C. of the United States. April 15. 1862.
I transmit herewith, for the consideration and such constitutional action as the Senate may deem proper to take, a treaty negotiated on the 6th March 1861, between late Agent Vanderslice,  on the part of the U.S. and certain delegates of the Sac and Fox, of the Missouri, and the Iowa tribes, of Indians; also certain petitions of said tribes praying that the treaty may be ratified with an amendment as set forth in said petitions. A letter of the Secretary of the Interior, with a report of the Comr. of Indian Affairs and letter of the present agent of the Indians accompany the treaty and petitions. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: April 15, 1862
In consequence of the delay attending the approval by the Senate of the Extradition Treaty with Mexico, signed on the 11th. December last, it is impossible to effect the exchange of ratifications of that, and the Postal Convention of the same date, within the period assigned by those instruments. I recommend therefore the passage of a Resolution, at the earliest practicable moment, extending the time specified in the 8th. Article of the Extradition Treaty, and in the 12th. Article of the Postal Convention for the exchange of ratifications, for sixty days from and after the 11th. June, next, the date of the expiration of the period named for that purpose in both instruments. Washington, 15 April 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: April 15, 1862
On the 26th. June 1860, the Senate approved of the Treaty of Friendship and Commerce between the United States and Nic aragua signed on the 16th. March, 1859, with certain amendments. On the next day, namely, 27th. June, 1860, the Senate adopted a resolution extending the period for the exchange of the ratifications of the Treaty, for six months from that day, that is, until the 27th. December, 1860. Altho' the amendments of the Senate were immediately transmitted to our Minister in Nicaragua for submission to the Government of that Republic, he failed, notwithstanding earnest efforts, to induce that government to call an extra session of Congress, to take into consideration the amendments of the Senate of the United States, within the supplementary time named in the Resolution of 27th. June, 1860, for the exchange of ratifications. It was not until the 25th. March, 1861---nearly three months after the expiration of the six months extended by the Senate Resolution, that the Congress of Nicaragua acted favorably upon the amendments of the Senate of the United States. A translation of the decree of the Nicaraguan Government approving the Treaty as amended, with an additional amendment is herewith enclosed. It will be perceived that while the ratification of Nicaragua recites literally the second amendment of the Senate, and accepts it with an additional clause, it does not, in explicit terms, accept the first amendment of the Senate, striking out the last clause of the 16th. Article. That amendment is of so much importance, that the adoption or rejection of it by the Government of Nicaragua should not be left to construction or inference. The final amendment of that government properly extended the time of exchanging ratifications for an additional twelve months. That time has expired. For obvious reasons connected with our internal affairs, the subject has not sooner been submitted to the Senate, but the Treaty is now laid before that Body, with this brief historical sketch and the decree of the Nicaraguan Government, for such further advice as may be deemed necessary and proper in regard to the acceptance or rejection of the amendments of Nicaragua. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 15th April 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 15, 1862
I do not sign the within, because I do not know but there is good reason, known to the Secretary of War, why the course indicated should not be taken. But if no such reason is known, I think that course should be adopted; and therefore I respectfully submit the subject to the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN April 15, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 15, 1862.
Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of War, with the remark that Mr. Blair says the writer's word is good to the utmost hair's-breadth for what he says A. LINCOLN April 15, 1862.

Message to Congress
April 16, 1862.
Fellow citizens of the Senate, and House of Representatives. The Act entitled ``An Act for the release of certain persons held to service, or labor in the District of Columbia'' has this day been approved, and signed. I have never doubted the constitutional authority of congress to abolish slavery in this District; and I have ever desired to see the national capital freed from the institution in some satisfactory way. Hence there has never been, in my mind, any question upon the subject, except the one of expediency, arising in view of all the circumstances. If there be matters within and about this act, which might have taken a course or shape, more satisfactory to my jud[g]ment, I do not attempt to specify them. I am gratified that the two principles of compensation, and colonization, are both recognized, and practically applied in the act. In the matter of compensation, it is provided that claims may be presented within ninety days from the passage of the act ``but not thereafter''; and there is no saving for minors, femes-covert, insane, or absent persons. I presume this is an omission by mere over-sight, and I recommened that it be supplied by an amendatory or supplemental act. ABRAHAM LINCOLN April 16, 1862.

To James W. Ripley

I shall be very much obliged, if Mr. Ellsworth can be assigned to duty where the work will be lighter. A. LINCOLN April 16, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please oblige Gen. Fremont, as within, if consistent with the public service. A. LINCOLN April 17, 1862.

To John Eastham
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, April 18, 1862.
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt from you of a very fine copy of your Photograph of the ``Treaty of Commerce.'' Be good enough, my dear Sir, to accept the assurance of my grateful appreciation of your kindness, and believe me Very Sincerely Yours ABRAHAM LINCOLN To Mr. John Eastham 22 St. Ann's Square Manchester

To the Senate and House of Representatives
April 18, 1862.
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a copy of a correspondence between the Secretary of State and Benjamin E. [H.] Brewster, of Philadelphia, relative to the arrest, in the city, of Simon Cameron, late Secretary of War, at the suit of Pierce Butler, for trespass, vi et armis , assault and battery, and false imprisonment. Washington, April 18, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion April 18 [?] 1862.
It is impossible for me to devote sufficient time to the consideration of this case to determine as to its merits. I can only refer the case of Mr. Meyer to the attention of the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
April 19, 1862.
Will the Attorney General please examine this case and give me his opinion whether the accounting officers should pay this claim, the Resolution of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding. April 19, 1862. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum
April 19, 1862
I scarcely think the son can be made a Brigadier General, under the circumstances but I should be glad for the father to be breveted a Brigadier General, if it can be done consistently with the Army rules. A. LINCOLN April 19, 1862.

To Edward Bates

If the Attorney General thinks proper, I have no objection to the leave of absence being given as asked. A. LINCOLN April 21. 1862.

To George B. McClellan
Major Gen. McClellan Washington City, D.C. Near York-Town. April 21, 1862.
Your despatch of the 19th. Was received that day. Fredericksburg is evacuated and the bridges destroyed by the enemy---and a small part of McDowell's command occupies this side of the Rappahannock opposite the town. He purposes moving his whole force to that point. A. LINCOLN

To James G. Berret
Executive Mansion, Hon. James G. Berret. Washington, April 22, 1862.
My dear Sir: With some reluctance and in accordance with the request made in your letter of the 17th, I have withdrawn the nomination of yourself to the Senate to be one of the commissioners under the act of congress abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia. In so far as your letter assumes that the tendering you the office without your solicitation or knowledge, attests my confidence in your loyalty to the United States, now and heretofore, you are entirely right. So far, however, as it assumes that, in my judgment, your imprisonment mentioned, was wholly undeserved, an explanatory word from me is due. I think you made a mistake which justified men having less evidence to the contrary than I had, to suspect your loyalty, and to act accordingly. The arrest, though made by my general authority, was in fact made without my knowledge at the time; but being done, the question of undoing it was a little different from that of the original making; and required a little time to solve it satisfactorily.

To John A. Dahlgren

Capt. Dahlgren, please see Mr. Hitchcock, & appoint a time to meet him & me here A. LINCOLN April 22, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 22, 1862.
I personally know Julius White, and that he is worthy. Having successfully commanded a Brigade at Pea Ridge, I think he should be made a Brigadier General. A. LINCOLN April 22. 1862.

To James W. Ripley
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 23, 1862.
It is said that in the case of the contract of S. Dingee & Co. in relation to arms a dispute has arisen as to the proper construction of a clause in an order signed by me, which clause is in these words: ``and that all not conforming thereto'' (the contract) ``be appraised by the ordnance officer at New York, and received at such price as he may determine.'' This order was prepared with reference to a definite number of arms expected to be delivered within a definite time , and not in reference to an indefinite number to be delivered in an indefinite time . I certainly did not expect that under the clause in question a lot of guns would be appraised at one price at one time, and another lot of precisely the same quality appraised at different prices at another time. I expected that when under the clause the price of a particular quality of gun was fixed it would stand throughout the transaction, neither going down or up. I still think this is the just construction. A. LINCOLN.

To Montogomery Blair
Hon. Post-Master-General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 24, 1862.
The member of Congress from the District including Tiffin O calls on me about the Post-Master at that place. I believe I turned over a despatch to you from some persons there, asking a suspension, so as for them to be heard, or something of the sort. If nothing, or nothing amounting to anything, has been done, I think the suspension might now be suspended, and the commission go forward. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To David P. Holloway

I join in asking an early examination. A. LINCOLN April 24, 1862.

Reply to Lorenzo Montufar
April 24, 1862
Mr. MONTUFAR: At any time the arrival of a Minister from San Salvador would be an interesting event. It is peculiarly so now. Republicanism is demonstrating its adaptation to the highest interests of society---the preservation of the State itself against the violence of faction. Elsewhere on the American continent it is struggling against the inroads of anarchy, which invites foreign intervention. Let the American States, therefore, draw closer together and animate and reassure each other, and thus prove to the world that, although we have inherited some of the errors of ancient systems, we are nevertheless capable of completing and establishing the new one which we have now chosen. On the result largely depends the progress, civilization, and happiness of mankind.

To the Senate
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 24th. 1862.
To the Senate of the United States:---In obedience to your resolution of the 17th. inst. I herewith communicate the testimony and judgment of recent Naval Court of Inquiry in the case of Lieutenant Charles E. Fleming of the United States Navy. Also the testimony and finding of the Naval Retiring Board in the case of said Lieutenant Fleming. I have the honor to state that the judgment and finding aforesaid have not been approved by me. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Luiz I
April 25, 1862.
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Majesty Dom Luiz I, King of Portugal, &c., &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 7th. of January, last, conveying the melancholy tidings of the decease of His Royal Highness the Most Serene Infante Dom Joao [ sic ], Your Majesty's beloved brother. I participate in the grief occasioned by this sad event and offer to your Majesty and to your royal household my sincere condolence. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping! Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, April 25, 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To the House of Representatives
To, The House of Representatives, April 26, 1862.
In compliance with the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 24th. of February last, requesting information in regard to insurgent privateers, in foreign ports, I transmit a Report form the Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied. [ABRAHAM LINCOLN.] [Washington, April 26, 1862.]

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War please make an order carefully in accordance with the within. A. LINCOLN April 26, 1862.

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Andrew Johnson Washington City, D.C. Nashville, Tenn. April 27, 1862.
Your despatch of yesterday just received---as also, in due course, was your former one. The former one, was sent to Gen. Halleck, and we have his answer, by which I have no doubt he, Gen. Halleck, is in communication with you before this. Gen. Halleck understands better than we can here, and he must be allowed to control in that quarter. If you are not in communication with Halleck, telegraph him at once, fully, and frankly. A. LINCOLN

To Lulu Waldron
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 27, 1862.
My Dear Young Friend Allow me to express to you my very sincere thanks for your kindness in sending me those elegant studs of Pipestone. Very truly Your friend A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Bellows

Dr. Bellows, of Sanitary Commission, please see Mr. Nellis, the bearer. A. LINCOLN April 28, 1862

To Hannibal Hamlin
War Department Washington City, D.C. April 28th. 1862
Sir; In answer to the Resolution of the Senate in relation to General Charles Stone, I respectfully state that he was arrested and imprisoned under my authority and with my sanction, upon evidence which, whether he be guilty or innocent, required in my judgment such proceedings to be had against him for the safety and welfare of the Country. He has not been tried because in the state of Military operations at the time of his arrest, and ever since, the Officers to constitute a Court, and for Witnesses, could not be withdrawn from duty, without serious injury to the service. He will be tried without any unnecessary delay, the Charges and Specifications will be furnished him in due season, and every facility for his defence will be afforded by the War Department. Respectfully Yours, ABRAHAM LINCOLN Hon. Hannibal Hamlin. President of the Senate.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Respectfully submitted to the Sec. of War, requesting a fair hearing for the applicant. A. LINCOLN April. 28. 1862.

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan. Executive Mansion, Near York-Town, Va. Washington, April 29, 1862.
Would it derange, or embarrass your operations, if I were to appoint Capt. Charles Griffin, a Brigadier General of volunteers? Please answer. A. LINCOLN (Send in Cypher)

To Edwin M. Stanton

I think as much as two weeks ago, I directed the appointment of Col. Jones, named within. Let it be done. A. LINCOLN April 29. 1862.

To Edward Bates
May 1, 1862
If Mr. Anconia, Rep. of the Reading District & Mr. Stevens, Rep. of Lancaster District  , will investigate this case and say in writing, they wish the young man pardoned, I will do it. May 1. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dahlgren

Thomas Fitzgerald, the bearer, wants to work. I shall be obliged if Capt. Dahlgren can find employment for him. May. 1, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
War Department, May 1, 1862.
Major-General Halleck, Pittsburg Landing, Tenn: I am pressed by the Missouri members of Congress to give General Schofield independent command in Missouri. They insist that for want of this their local troubles gradually grow worse. I have forborne, so far, for fear of interfering with and embarrassing your operations. Please answer, telling me whether anything, and what, I can do for them without injuriously interfering with you. A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
(CYPHER) Major Gen. McClellan Executive Mansion, Near York-Town, Va. Washington, May 1, 1862.
Your call for Parrott guns from Washington alarms me---chiefly because it argues indefinite procrastination. Is anything to be done? A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
Executive Mansion, Washington, To the Senate of the United States: May 1--- 1862
In answer to the Resolution of the Senate in relation to Brigadier General Stone, I have the honor to state that he was arrested, and imprisoned under my general authority, and upon evidence which, whether he be guilty or innocent, required, as appears to me, such proceedings to be had against him for the public safety. I deem it incompatable with the public interest, as also perhaps, unjust to General Stone, to make a more particular statement of the evidence. He has not been tried because in the state of military operations, at the time of his arrest and since, the officers to constitute a court-martial, and for witnesses, could not be withdrawn from duty without serious injury to the service. He will be allowed a trial without any unnecessary delay; the charges and specifications will be furnished him in due season; and every facility for his defence will be afforded him by the War Department.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: May 1, 1862
In accordance with the suggestion of the Secretary of the Treasury contained in the accompanying letter, I have the honor to transmit the enclosed petition and report thereon of the Third Auditor for the consideration of Congress. Executive Mansion, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, May 1, 1862.

To Edward Bates
May 3, 1862
This petition for pardon is presented by Senator Chandler, and earnestly urged by him. May 3. 1862. A.L. The Attorney General will please make out a pardon in this case. May 16, 1862. A LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of George W. Garrett
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 3, 1862.
To-day Mr. Senator Wright introduces a Committee of Citizens of this District consisting of William Dixon, William Wise, Henry Lee, Reuben Bacon, Henry D. Gannell [Grinnell?], W.J. Murta[u]gh, James H. Lusby who asks the appointment of George W. Garrett as Warden of Penitentiary. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon.Sec. of War. Washington, May. 3. 1862.
Let Stephen G. Burbridge, of Kentucky, be appointed a Brigadier General of volunteers. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 5, 1862
On enquiry into this case I think it due to Lt. Colonel G. Montagu Hicks that he be appointed an Aide de Camp of General Wool with the rank of Colonel as upon his recommendation and assigned to General McDowell. Let it be done. May 5th. 1862. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I think it would be proper to appoint Eugene Sullivan a Lieutenant in the regular Army, if there be any vacancy not committed to any other. A. LINCOLN May 5. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 5, 1862
Sec. of War please give fair and respectful consideration to the within recommendations of Miss Dix.

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 6, 1862
The enclosed recommendation from the Govr. of Pennsylvania is respectfully referred to the consideration of the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN May 6. 1862

To Louis M. Goldsborough
Head-quarters, Department of Va. Flag officer Goldsborough Fort Monroe, Va. May 7, 1862.
Sir Major General McClellan telegraphs that he has ascertained by a reconnaisance that the battery at Jamestown at Jamestown [ sic ] has been abandoned, and he again requests that gunboats may be sent up the James River. If you have tolerable confidence that you can successfully contend with the Merrimac without the help of the Galena and two accompanying gunboats send the Galenana [ sic ] and two gunboats up the James River at once. Please report your action on her to me at once. I shall be found either at Gen Wools Head Quarters or on board the Miami Your Obedient Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
[May 7, 1862]
Let this appointment be made if there be any vacancancy [ sic ] not already committed to any other. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan Head quarters, Department of Va. Williamsburg: Fort Monroe, Va. May 9. 1862.
The President is unwilling to have the Army corps organization broken up; but also unwilling that the commanding General shall be trammelled, and embarrassed, in actual skirmishing collision with the enemy, and on the eve of an expected great battle; you therefore may temporarily suspend that organization, in the Army now under your immediate command, and adopt any you see fit until further orders. He also writes you privately.

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan. Fort Monroe, Va. My dear Sir: May 9, 1862.
I have just assisted the Secretary of War in framing the part of a despatch to you, relating to Army Corps, which despatch of course will have reached you long before this will. I wish to say a few words to you privately on this subject. I ordered the Army Corps organization not only on the unanimous opinion of the twelve Generals whom you had selected and assigned as Generals of Division, but also on the unanimous opinion of every military man I could get an opinion from, and every modern military book, yourself only expected. Of course, I did not, on my own judgment, pretend to understand the subject. I now think it indispensable for you to know how your struggle against it is received in quarters which we cannot entirely disregard. It is looked upon as merely an effort to pamper one or two pets, and to persecute and degrade their supposed rivals. I have had no word from Sumner, Heintzelman, or Keyes.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) The commanders of these Corps are of course the three highest officers with you, but I am constantly told that you consult and communicate with nobody but General Fitz John Porter, and perhaps General Franklin.  FOOTNOTES}>(3) I do not say these complaints are true or just; but at all events it is proper you should know of their existence. Do the Commanders of Corps disobey your orders in any thing? When you relieved General Hamilton  FOOTNOTES}>(4) of his command the other day, you thereby lost the confidence of at least one of your best friends in the Senate. And here let me say, not as applicable to you personally, that Senators and Representatives speak of me in their places as they please, without question; and that officers of the army must cease addressing insulting letters to them for taking no greater liberty with them. But, to return, are you strong enough-are you strong enough, even with my help-to set your foot upon the necks of Sumner, Heintzelman, and Keyes all at once? This is a practical and very serious question for you. The success of your army and the cause of the country are the same; and of course I only desire the good of the cause. Yours truly. A. LINCOLN.

To Louis M. Goldsborough
Flag officer Goldsborough Fort Monroe Va May 10, 1862.
My dear Sir I send you this copy of your report of yesterday for the purpose of saying to you in writing that you are quite right in supposing the movement made by you and therein reported was made in accordance with my wishes verbally expressed to you in advance. I avail myself of the occasion to thank you for your courtesy and all your conduct so far as known to me during my brief visit here Yours very truly A LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major Gen. Halleck Fort. Monroe, Va. Pittsburg Landing, Tenn. May. 11. 1862
Norfolk in our possession, Merrimac blown up, & Monitor & other boats going up James River to Richmond. Be very sure  to sustain no reverse in your Department. A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Raising the Blockade of Certain Ports
May 12, 1862
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. Whereas, by my Proclamation of the nineteenth of April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, it was declared that the ports of certain States, including those of Beaufort in the State of North Carolina, Port Royal in the State of South Carolina, and New Orleans in the State of Louisiana, were, for reasons therein set forth, intended to be placed under blockade; and whereas, the said ports of Beaufort, Port Royal, and New Orleans, have since been blockaded; but as the blockade of the same ports may now be safely relaxed with advantage to the interests of commerce: Now, therefore, be it known, that I, ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States, pursuant to the authority in me vested by the fifth section of the Act of Congress, approved on the 13th. of July, last, entitled ``An Act further to provide for the Collection of Duties on Imports, and for other Purposes,''-do hereby declare that the blockade of the said ports of Beaufort, Port Royal, and New Orleans, shall so far cease and determine from and after the first day of June, next, that commercial intercourse with those ports, except as to persons, things, and information, contraband of war, may, from that time, be carried on, subject to the laws of the United States and to the limitations and in pursuance of the regulations which are prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury in his order of this date, which is appended to this proclamation. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington this twelfth day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty two, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty sixth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To Lorenzo Thomas

For special reasons, let George F. Gardiner, now a Major of Volunteers, be appointed a Second Lieutenant in the Regular Army. May 12, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney-General, please make out a pardon in this case. May 13, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Charles L. Flint
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 13, 1862.
My dear Sir Allow me to thank you very cordially for the copy of your work on ``Insects Injurious to Vegetation'' which you have had the kindness to send me, and believe me Yours very sincerely Charles L. Flint Esq A. LINCOLN

To Abraham Hart
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 13, 1862.
My dear Sir Permit me to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of April 23d containing a copy of a Prayer recently delivered at your Synagogue, and to thank you heartily for your expressions of kindness and confidence. I have the honor to be Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN A Hart Esq Prest. Congn. Hope of Israel Phila.

Response to Evangelical Lutherans
May 13, 1862
GENTLEMEN: I welcome here the representatives of the Evangelical Lutherans of the United States. I accept with gratitude their assurances of the sympathy and support of that enlightened, influential, and loyal class of my fellow-citizens in an important crisis which involves, in my judgment, not only the civil and religious liberties of our own dear land, but in a large degree the civil and religious liberties of mankind in many countries and through many ages. You well know, gentlemen, and the world knows, how reluctantly I accepted this issue of battle forced upon me, on my advent to this place, by the internal enemies of our country. You all know, the world knows the forces and resources the public agents have brought into employment to sustain a Government against which there has been brought not one complaint of real injury committed against society, at home or abroad. You all may recollect that in taking up the sword thus forced into our hands this Government appealed to the prayers of the pious and the good, and declared that it placed its whole dependence upon the favor of God. I now humbly and reverently, in your presence, reiterate the acknowledgment of that dependence, not doubting that, if it shall please the Divine Being who determines the destinies of nations that this shall remain a united people, they will, humbly seeking the Divine guidance, make their prolonged national existence a source of new benefits to themselves and their successors, and to all classes and conditions of mankind.

Speech to the Twelfth Indiana Regiment
May 13, 1862
Soldiers of the Twelfth Indiana Regiment! It has not been customary heretofore, nor will it be hereafter, for me to say something to every regiment passing in review. It occurs too frequently for me to have speeches ready on all occasions. As you have paid such a mark of respect to the Chief Magistrate, it appears proper that I should say a word or two in reply. Your Colonel  has thought fit, on his own account and in your name, to say that you are satisfied with the manner in which I have performed my part in the difficulties which have surrounded the nation. For your kind expressions I am extremely grateful, but, on the other hand, I assure you that the nation is more indebted to you, and such as you, than to me. It is upon the brave hearts and strong arms of the people of the country that our reliance has been placed in support of free government and free institutions. For the part that you and the brave army of which you are a part have, under Providence, performed in this great struggle, I tender more thanks---greatest thanks that can be possibly due---and especially to this regiment, which has been the subject of good report. The thanks of the nation will follow you, and may God's blessing rest upon you now and forever. I hope that upon your return to your homes you will find your friends and loved ones well and happy. I bid you farewell.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
May 14, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: The third section of the ``Act further to provide the efficiency of the navy,'' approved 21st December, 1861, provides: ``That the President of the United States, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall have the authority to detail from the retired list of the navy for the command of squadrons and single ships such officers as he may believe that the good of the service requires to be thus placed in command; and such officers may, if upon the recommendation of the President of the United States they shall receive a vote of thanks of Congress for their services and gallantry in action against an enemy, be restored to the active list and not otherwise.'' In conformity with this law, Captain David G. Farragut was nominated to the Senate for continuance as the flag-officer in command of the squadron which recently rendered such important service to the Union, by his successful operations on the lower Mississippi and capture of New Orleans. Believing that no occasion could arise which would more fully correspond with the intention of the law, or be more pregnant with happy influence as an example, I cordially recommend that Captain D. G. Farragut receive a vote of thanks of Congress for his services and gallantry displayed in the capture, since the 21st December, 1861, of Forts Jackson and St. Philip, city of New Orleans, and the destruction of various rebel gunboats, rams, & c. Washington, D.C., May 14, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
May 14, 1862.
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I submit, herewith, a list of naval officers who commanded vessels engaged in the recent brilliant operations of the squadron commanded by Flag-Officer Farragut, which led to the capture of Forts Jackson and St. Philip, city of New Orleans, and the destruction of rebel gunboats, rams, & c., in April, 1862. For their services and gallantry on those occasions I cordially recommend that they should, by name, receive a vote of thanks of Congress. LIST. Captain Theodorus Bailey. Captain Henry W. Morris. Captain Thomas T. Craven. Commander Henry H. Bell. Commander John DeCamp. Commander Samuel Phillips Lee. Commander James Alden. Commander Samuel Swartwout. Commander David D. Porter. Commander Melancton Smith. Commander Richard Wainwright. Commander Charles Stewart Boggs. Commander William B. Renshaw. Lieutenant Commanding Abram D. Harrell. Lieutenant Commanding Edward Donaldson. Lieutenant Commanding George H. Preble. Lieutenant Commanding Edward T. Nichols. Lieutenant Commanding Jonathan M. Wainwright. Lieutenant Commanding John Guest. Lieutenant Commanding Charles H. B. Caldwell. Lieutenant Commanding Napoleon B. Harrison. Lieutenant Commanding Albert N. Smith. Lieutenant Commanding Pierce Crosby. Lieutenant Commanding George M. Ransom. Lieutenant Commanding Watson Smith. Lieutenant Commanding John H. Russell. Lieutenant Commanding Walter W. Queen. Lieutenant Commanding K. Randolph Breese. Acting Lieutenant Commanding Selim E. Woodworth. Acting Lieutenant Commanding Charles H. Baldwin. Washington, D.C., May 14, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To I. A. Gere, A. A. Reese, and George D. Chenoweth
[May 15?] 1862
Rev.I. A. Gere, A. A. Reese, D.D., G. D. Chenoweth:--- Gentlemen:---Allow me to tender to you, and through you to the East Baltimore Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, my grateful thanks for the preamble and resolutions of that body, copies of which you did me the honor to present yesterday. These kind words of approval, coming from so numerous a body of intelligent Christian people, and so free from all suspicion of sinister motives, are indeed encouraging to me. By the help of an all-wise Providence, I shall endeavor to do my duty; and I shall expect the continuance of your prayers for a right solution of our national difficulties, and the restoration of our country to peace and prosperity. Your obliged and humble servant, A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan Washington City, D.C. Cumberland, Va. May 15, 1862.
Your long despatch of yesterday is just received. I will answer more fully soon. Will say now that all your despatches to the Secretary of War have been promptly shown to me. Have done, and shall do, all I could and can to sustain you---hoped that the opening of James River, and putting Wool and Burnside in communication, with an open road to Richmond, or to you, had effected something in that direction. I am still unwilling to take all our force off the direct line between Richmond and here. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If another Brigade Quarter-Master is needed let Mr. Bowen be appointed. A. LINCOLN May 15, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir May 15, 1862.
Capt. Symmes Gardner, was nominated to the Senate as Assistant Quarter-Master, and rejected. My impression is that I directed his renomination, on information from Senators, that the rejection probably resulted from mistake. If there be such direction of mine on file, please send me the re-nomination at once. Yours truly A. LINCOLN If Gen. Meigs will say in writing that this re-nomination may properly be made, I will do it. A. LINCOLN Dec. 11. 1862 If there is a vacancy of Asst. Q. M. not already promised---let Capt. Gardner have it. Dec. 15, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I really wish the appointment within recommended, to be made. May 15. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Henry Wilson
Hon. Henry Wilson Executive Mansion My dear Sir: May 15, 1862.
I would gladly say a word for the two establishments at Philadelphia, one called the ``Union Volunteer Refreshment Saloon'' and the other the ``Cooper Shop'' if I could do so with propriety and good taste. But I know nothing of the facts myself, and could only say hypothetically, that if they have dealt so generously with our volunteers, as I have frequently heard, and believe, they are indeed worthy of all praise. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Valentine B. Horton
Hon. V. B. Horton, Executive Mansion, M.C. from Ohio, Washington, May 16, 1862.
My dear Sir: Herewith is a copy of your letter with a copy of my Endorsement upon it. You perceive I did exactly what you requested. Neither more nor less. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN. I authorize the Secretary of War to appoint Capt. R. F. Hunter, as I am within requested to do by Hon. V. B. Horton.

To Irvin McDowell
Major-General McDowell: Washington, May 16, 1862.
What is the strength of your force now actually with you? A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate
To the Senate Executive Office of the United States--- May  1862.
I transmit herewith for the constitutional action of the Senate, a treaty negotiated on the 13th of March 1862, between H. W. Farnsworth, a Commissioner on the part of the United States, and the authorized representatives of the Kansas tribe of Indians. A communication from the Secretary of the Interior, together with a letter of the Commissioner of Indian affairs suggesting certain amendments to the treaty, and enclosing papers relating thereto, are also transmitted. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
[May 17, 1862]
No commanding general shall do such a thing, upon my responsibility, without consulting me. A. LINCOLN.

To Irvin McDowell
[May 17, 1862]
You will retain the separated command of the forces taken with you; but while co-operating with Gen. McClellan you will obey, his orders, except that you are to Judge, and are not to allow your force to be disposed otherwise than so as to give the greatest protection to this capital which may be possible from that distance.

To Mary Motley
Executive Mansion, Miss Mary Motley--- Washington, May 17, 1862.
A friend of yours (a young gentlemen of course) tells me you do me the honor of requesting my autograph. I could scarcely refuse any young lady---certainly not the daughter of your distinguished father. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 17, 1862
Let Frederick Salomon, of Wisconsin, be appointed a Brigadier General of volunteers.

Appointment of George Harrington
Washington, May 19th. 1862.
George Harrington, is hereby appointed to discharge the duties of Secretary of the Treasury, during the absence of Salmon P. Chase, from Washington. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To John A. Dix

This is a copy of a letter said to be written by a reliable man now a prisoner in Richmond. A. LINCOLN May 19, 1862.

Proclamation Revoking General Hunter's Order of Military Emancipation of May 9, 1862
May 19, 1862
By the President of The United States of America. A Proclamation. Whereas there appears in the public prints, what purports to be a proclamation, of Major General Hunter, in the words and figures following, towit:  Headquarters Department of the South ,} Hilton Head, S.C., May 9, 1862.} General Orders No. 11.---The three States of Georgia, Florida and South Carolina, comprising the military department of the south, having deliberately declared themselves no longer under the protection of the United States of America, and having taken up arms against the said United States, it becomes a military necessity to declare them under martial law. This was accordingly done on the 25th day of April, 1862. Slavery and martial law in a free country are altogether incompatible; the persons in these three States---Georgia, Florida and South Carolina---heretofore held as slaves, are therefore declared forever free. DAVID HUNTER, (Official) Major General Commanding. ED. W. SMITH, Acting Assistant Adjutant General. And whereas the same is producing some excitement, and misunderstanding: therefore I, Abraham Lincoln, president of the United States, proclaim and declare, that the government of the United States, had no knowledge, information, or belief, of an intention on the part of General Hunter to issue such a proclamation; nor has it yet, any authentic information that the document is genuine. And further, that neither General Hunter, nor any other commander, or person, has been  authorized by the Government of the United States, to make proclamations declaring the slaves of any State free; and that the supposed proclamation, now in question, whether genuine or false, is altogether void, so far as respects such declaration. I further make known that whether it be competent for me, as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, to declare the Slaves of any state or states, free, and whether at any time, in any case, it shall have become a necessity indispensable to the maintainance of the government, to exercise such supposed power, are questions which, under my responsibility, I reserve to myself, and which I can not feel justified in leaving to the decision of  commanders in the field. These are totally different questions from those of police regulations in armies and camps. On the sixth day of March last, by a special message, I recommended to Congress the adoption of a joint resolution to be substantially as follows:  Resolved , That the United States ought to co-operate with any State which may adopt a gradual abolishment of slavery, giving to such State pecuniary aid, to be used by such State in its discretion to compensate for the inconveniences, public and private, produced by such change of system. The resolution, in the language above quoted, was adopted by large majorities in both branches of Congress, and now stands an authentic, definite, and solemn proposal of the nation to the States and people most immediately interested in the subject matter. To the people of those states I now earnestly appeal. I do not argue. I beseech you to make the arguments for yourselves. You  can not if you would, be blind to the signs of the times. I beg of you a calm and enlarged consideration of them, ranging, if it may be, far above personal and partizan politics. This proposal makes common cause for a common object, casting no reproaches upon any. It acts  not the pharisee. The change it contemplates would come gently as the dews of heaven, not rending or wrecking anything. Will you not embrace it? So much good has not been done, by one effort, in all past time, as, in the providence of God, it is now your high previlege to do. May the vast future not have to lament that you have neglected it.  In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington this nineteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-sixth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

Reply to Maryland Slaveholders
May 19, 1862
The President, in reply, assured them he had entire confidence in Gen. Wadsworth's ability and intention to do right, but would take their representations into consideration, and see that no injustice was done.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If there be a vacancy such as mentioned within, and it be not in the regular Army, let it be filled as herein requested. A. LINCOLN May 19. 1862.

To George B. McClellan
United States Military Telegraph, Washington 20 Head-Quarters, Department Potomac Maj Gen McClellan May 20th 1862.
Telegraph being open tell us the situation & suggest if you can anything about batteries at Fort Darling A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion May 20, 1862
Hon. Mr. Wadsworth of Ky. wishes five hundred arms for reasons which he will explain to you. Unless you know some strong objection, please let him have them. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Lady Villiers
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 20, 1862.
Mr. Lyon has informed me that Lady Villiers has expressed a wish for my autograph. I beg that her Ladyship will accept the assurance of my sincere gratification at this oppertunity of subscribing myself Very truly, Her Ladyship's obedient servant, A. LINCOLN.

To James G. Bennett
Private James G. Bennett, Esq Executive Mansion Dear Sir: May 21, 1862.
Thanking you again for the able support given by you, through the Herald, to what I think the true cause of the country, and also for your kind expressions towards me personally, I wish to correct an erroneous impression of yours in regard to the Secretary of War. He mixes no politics whatever with his duties; knew nothing of Gen. Hunter's proclamation; and he and I alone got up the counter-proclamation. I wish this to go no further than to you, while I do wish to assure you it is true. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D C May 21, 1862
Major General McClellan: Your long despatch of yesterday just received. You will have just such control of Gen. McDowell and his force as you therein indicate. McDowell can reach you by land sooner than he could get aboard of boats if the boats were ready at Frederick'sburg,---unless his march shall be resisted, in which case, the force resisting him, will certainly not be confronting you at Richmond. By land he can reach you in five days after starting, whereas by water he would not reach you in two weeks, judging by past experience. Franklin's single Division did not reach you in ten days after I ordered it. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major Genl. McClellan Washington City, D.C. May 21, 1862.
I have just been waited on by a large Committee who present a petition signed by twenty-three Senators and eightyfour Representatives, asking me to restore Gen. Hamilton to his Division. I wish to do this, and yet I do not wish to be understood as rebuking you. Please answer at once. A. LINCOLN. Send in Cypher.

To The Senate
To the Senate: May 21, 1862
In answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 14th instant, requesting information in regard to arrests in the State of Kentucky, I transmit a report from the Secretary of War, to whom the resolution was referred. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, May 21, 1862.

To James F. Simmons
Hon. Senator Simmons Executive Mansion May 21, 1862.
My dear Sir: This distressed girl says she belongs to your state; that she was here with her father and brother, in our Army, till they went with it to the peninsula; that her brother  has been killed there and her father made prisoner---and that she is here, wanting employment to support herself. If you can be satisfied that her story is correct, please see if you can not get Mr. Sec. Chase or friend Newton to find her a place. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Charles Sumner
May 21, 1862
I know nothing of this case---know not where Mr. Alden is---whether any proceedings are on foot against him. I should not knowingly let him be punished, if shown he has the infirmity stated in the affidavit; though the infirmity may be sufficient reason for dismissing him from the service. A. LINCOLN May 21, 1862.

To William A. Hammond
Washington, May 22, 1862.
I am personally acquainted with Dr. Stone, the writer of the within paper, and believe him to be a skilful physician, altogether capable of forming a correct opinion on the subject he within has spoken upon. I think it probable the disinfectant would be valuable in our hospitals and camps; and, with the consent of the Surgeon General, I should be glad for Dr. Kidwell to be allowed to introduce it. A. LINCOLN.

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives. May 22, 1862
In compliance with the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 20th. instant requesting information in regard to the indemnity obtained by the Consul General of the United States at Alexandria, Egypt, for the maltreatment of Faris-el-Hakim, an agent in the employ of the American Missionaries in that country, I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 22nd. May, 1862.

Memorandum:Appointment of George Montagu Hicks
May 22, 1862
This note, as Col. Hicks did verbally yesterday, attempts to excite me against the Secretary of War, and therein is offensive to me. My ``order'' as he is pleased to call it, is plainly no order at all. May 22, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir May 22. 1862.
The bearer of this, Dr. Tarrant A. Perkins, was appointed a Brigadier Surgeon by me, and was serving in Western Virginia, when wishing to be transferred West, under bad advice, he resigned, expecting to get a new appointment, and thus to effect his object. Of course this simply got him out of the service. He is, however, my personal friend, for whom, and whose family I have great kindness of feeling. I shall be personally obliged, if it can be arranged to re-appoint him, and order him to report for duty anywhere in Gen. Halleck's Department. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: May 23, 1862
I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State in answer to the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 22d instant, calling for further correspondence relative to Mexican Affairs. Washington, 23d May 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
War Department Major General Fremont Washington City, D.C. Franklin. May 24th. 1862
You are authorized to purchase the four hundred horses or take them wherever and however you can get them. The exposed condition of General Banks makes his immediate relief a point of paramount importance. You are therefore directed by the President to move against Jackson at Harrisonberg and operate against the enemy in such way as to relieve Banks. This movement must be made immediately. You will acknowledge the receipt of this order and specify the hour it is received by you. A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
Major Genl. Fremont Washington City, D.C. Franklin, Va. May 24, 71/4 P.M. 1862
Many thanks for the promptness with which you have answered that you will execute the order. Much-perhaps all-depends upon the celerity with which you can execute it. Put the utmost speed into it. Do not lose a minute. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major Genl. Halleck Washington City, D.C. Near Corinth, Tenn. [Mississippi] May 24, 71/2 P.M. 1862
Several despatches from Assistant Secretary Scott, and one from Gov. Morton, asking re-inforcements for you have been received. I beg you to be assured we do the best we can. I mean to cast no blame when I tell you each of our commanders along our line from Richmond to Corinth supposes himself to be confronted by numbers superior to his own. Under this pressure we thinned the line on the upper Potomac until yesterday it was broken, at heavy loss to us, and Gen. Banks put in great peril, out of which he is not yet extricated, and may be actually captured. We need men to repair this breach, and have them not at hand. My dear general, I feel justified to rely very much on you. I believe you and the brave officers and men with you, can and will get the victory at Corinth. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major General McClellan May 24. 1862
I left Gen. McDowell's camp at dark last evening. Shields'  command is there but is so worn that he can not move before Monday morning the (26th.) twenty sixth. We have so thinned our line to get troops for other places that it was broken yesterday at Front-Royal with a probable loss to us of a Regiment infantry, two companies of cavalry, putting Banks in some peril. The enemies forces under Gen. Anderson  now opposing Gen. McDowell's advance have, as their line of supply and retreat, the Road to Richmond. If in conjunction with McDowell's movement against Anderson you could send a force from your right to cut off the enemies supplies from Richmond, preserve the Rail Road bridges across the two forks of the Pamunkey and intercept the enemies retreat you will prevent the army now opposed to you from receiving an accession of numbers of nearly fifteen thousand men---and if you succeed in saving the bridges you will [se]cure a line of Rail Road for supplies in addition to the one you now have. Can you not do this almost as well as not, while you are building the Chicahomany bridges? McDowell and Shields both say they can, and positively will, move monday morning. I wish you to move cautiously and safely. You will have command of Gen. McDowell after he joins you, precisely as you indicate in your long despatch to me of the twentyfirst. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan May 24. 4. P.M. 1862
In consequence of Gen. Banks' critical position I have been compelled to suspend Gen. McDowell's movement to join you. The enemy are making a desperate push upon Harper's Ferry, and we are trying to throw Fremont's force & part of McDowell's in their rear. A. LINCOLN

To Irvin McDowell
Major Gen McDowell Washington City, D.C. Fredericksburg 24, May 1862 [5 P.M.]
Gen Fremont has been ordered by Telegraph to move from Franklin on Harrisonburg to relieve Gen Banks and capture or destroy Jackson & Ewell's force. You are instructed laying aside for the present the movement on Richmond to put twenty thousand men (20000) in motion at once for the Shenandoah moving on the line or in advance of the line of the Manassas Gap R Road. Your object will be to capture the forces of Jackson & Ewell, either in cooperation with Gen Fremont or in case want of supplies or of transportation interferes with his movement, it is believed that the force with which you move will be sufficient to accomplish the object alone. The information thus far received here makes it probable that if the enemy operates actively against Gen Banks you will not be able to count upon much assistance from him but may even have to release him. Reports received this moment are that Banks is fighting with Ewell (8) Eight miles from Winchester. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Irvin McDowell
Washington City, D.C. May 24 1862 [8 P.M.]
Major General McDowell I am highly gratified by your alacrity in obeying my order. The change was as painful to me as it can possibly be to you or to any one. Every thing now dependes upon the celerity and vigor of your movement. A. LINCOLN

To Dixon S. Miles
Col. Miles, Washington, D.C., Harper's Ferry, Va May 24, 1862. [1.30 P.M.]
Could you not send scouts from Winchester, who would tell whether enemy are North of Banks, moving on Winchester? What is the latest you have? A. LINCOLN

To Rufus Saxton
Gen. Saxton: Washington City, D.C. May 24, 1862 1. P.M.
Geary  reports Jackson with twenty thousand, moving from Ashby's Gap, by the Little River Turnpike through Aldie toward's Centerville. This he says is reliable. He is also informed of large forces South of him. We know a force of some fifteen thousand broke up Saturday-night, from in front of Fredericks'burg, & went we know not where. Please inform us, if possible, what has become of the force which pursued Banks yesterday. Also, any other information you have. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
May 24, 1862
To the Senate of the United States: I transmit a report from the Secretary of State in answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 22nd instant, calling for further correspondence relative to Mexican affairs. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, May 24, 1862.

To Salmon P. Chase
Secretary Chase Washington City, D.C. Fredericksburg, Va. May 25. 1862
It now appears that Banks got safely in to Winchester last night, and is, this morning, retreating on Harper's Ferry. This justifies the inference that he is pressed by numbers superior to his own. I think it not improbable that Ewell Jackson and Johnson, are pouring through the gap they made day-before yesterday at Front Royal, making a dash Northward. It will be a very valuable, and very honorable service for Gen. McDowell to cut them off. I hope he will put all possible energy and speed into the effort. A. LINCOLN

To John W. Geary
War Department, May 25, 1862---1.45 P.M.
General Geary, White Plains: Please give us your best present impression as to the number of the enemy's forces forces north of Strasburg and Front Royal. Are the forces still moving north through the Gap at Front Royal and between you and there? A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
United States Military Telegraph War Department, Washington, D.C. To/ May 25, 1862.
General McClellan: The enemy is moving North in sufficient force to drive Banks before him in precisely what force we can not tell. He is also threatening Leesburgh and Geary on the Manassas Gap Rail Road from both north and south in precisely what force we can not tell. I think the movement is a general and concerted one, such as could not be if he was acting upon the purpose of a very desperate defence of Richmond. I think the time is near when you must either attack Richmond or give up the job and come to the defence of Washington. Let me hear from you instantly. A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
(Send in Cypher). War Department Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan May 25. 1862 81/2 P.M.
Your despatch received. Banks was at Strausburg with about six-thousand men, Shields having been taken from him to swell a column for McDowell to aid you at Richmond, and the rest of his force scattered at various places. On the 23rd. a rebel force of seven to ten thousand fell upon one regiment and two companies guarding the bridge at Front-Royal, destroying it entirely, crossed the Shenandoah, and on the 24th. (yesterday) pushed to get North of Banks on the Road to Winchester. Banks ran a race with them, beating them into Winchester yesterday evening. This morning a battle ensued between the two forces in which Banks was beaten back into full retreat towards Martinsburg, and probably is broken up into a total route. Geary, on the Manassas Gap R.R. just now reports that Jackson is now near Front-Royal with ten thousand following up & supporting as I understand, the force now pursuing Banks. Also that another force of ten thousand is near Orleans following on in the same direction. Stripped bare, as we are here, it will be all we can do to prevent them crossing the Potomac at Harper's Ferry, or above. We have about twenty thousand of McDowell's force moving back to the vicinity of Front Royal; and Gen. Fremont, who was at Franklin, is moving to Harrisonburg, both these movements intended to get in the enemies near. One more of McDowells Brigades is ordered through here to Harper's Ferry. The rest of his force remains, for the present, at Fredericksburg. We are sending such regiments and dribs from here and Baltimore, as we can spare, to Harper's Ferry, supplying their places, in some sort, by calling in Militia from the adjacent States. We also have eighteen cannon on the road to Harper's Ferry of which arm, there is not a single one yet at that point. This is now our situation. If McDowell's force was now beyond our reach, we should be utterly helpless. Apprehension of something like this, and no unwillingness to sustain you, has always been my reason for withholding McDowells force from you. Please understand this, and do the best you can with the force you have. A. LINCOLN

To Rufus Saxton
War Department, May 25, 1862---4.15 P.M.
General Saxton, Harper's Ferry: If Banks reaches Martinsburg, is he any the better for it? Will not the enemy cut him off from thence to Harper's Ferry? Have you sent anything to meet him and assist him at Martinsburg? This is an inquiry, not an order. A. LINCOLN.

To Rufus Saxton
Gen. Saxton Washington City, D.C. Harper's Ferry May 25, 1862. 6.50 P.M.
One good six-gun battery, complete in it's men and appointments, is now on it's way to you from Baltimore. Eleven other guns of different sorts are on their way to you from here. Hope they will all reach you before morning. As you have but twentyfive hundred men at Harper's Ferry, where are the rest which were in that vicinity, and which we have sent forward? Have any of them be[en] cut off? A. LINCOLN

To Rufus Saxton
Gen. Saxton Washington City, D.C. Harper's Ferry May 25, 1862. 101/2 P.M.
I fear you have mistaken me. I did not mean to question the correctness of your conduct. On the contrary I approve what you have done. As the 2500, reported by you seemed small to me, I feared, some had got to Banks and been cut off with him. Please tell me the exact number you now have in hand. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
May 26, 1862
Will the Attorney General please give his opinion whether this claim of William H. DeGroot, should be paid, the resolution of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding. A. LINCOLN May 26, 1862.

To Andrew G. Curtin
His Excellency A. G. Curtin Executive Mansion Gov. of Penn. May 26. 1862
The bearer of this, Edward D. Baker, is the son of my very dear friend Col. Baker, who fell at Ball's Bluff. He thinks you might be induced to make him a field officer in a Pennsylvania Regiment. Disclaiming all wish to interfere in a matter so purely belonging to you and your State, I still say I would be much pleased, if he could be obliged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
United States Military Telegraph, Head-Quarters, Department Potomac Maj Gen McClellan--- Washington May 26th 1862. 12.40 A.M.
We have Genl Banks official report. He has saved his army & baggage & has made a safe retreat to the river & is probably safe at Williamsport. He reports the attacking force at fifteen thousand (15000). ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Genl. McClellan. May 26, 1862 101/4 P.M.
Can you not cut the Acquia Creek Railroad also? What impression have you, as to intrenchments---works---for you to contend with in front of Richmond? Can you get near enough to throw shells into the city? A. LINCOLN (Send in cypher).

To Irvin McDowell
Major Genl. McDowell Washington City, D.C. Falmouth, Va. May 26, 1862 1. P.M.
Despatchs from Geary, just received, have been sent you.  Should not the remainder of your force except sufficient to hold the point at Frederick'sburg, move this way---to Manassas junction, or to Alexandria? As commander of this Department should you not be here? I ask these questions. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
May 26, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: The insurrection which is yet existing in the United States, and aims at the overthrow of the federal Constitution and the Union, was clandestinely prepared during the winter of 1860 and 1861, and assumed an open organization in the form of a treasonable provisional government at Montgomery, in Alabama, on the 18th day of February, 1861. On the 12th day of April, 1861, the insurgents committed the flagrant act of civil war by the bombardment and capture of Fort Sumter, which cut off the hope of immediate conciliation. Immediately afterwards all the roads and avenues to this city were obstructed, and the capital was put into the condition of a siege. The mails in every direction were stopped, and the lines of telegraph cut off by the insurgents, and military and naval forces, which had been called out by the government for the defence of Washington, were prevented from reaching the city by organized and combined treasonable resistance in the State of Maryland. There was no adequate and effective organization for the public defence. Congress had indefinitely adjourned. There was no time to convene them. It became necessary for me to choose whether, using only the existing means, agencies, and processes which Congress had provided, I should let the government fall at once into ruin, or whether, availing myself of the broader powers conferred by the Constitution in cases of insurrection, I would make an effort to save it with all its blessings for the present age and for posterity. I thereupon summoned my constitutional advisers, the heads of all the departments, to meet on Sunday, the 20th [21st] day of April, 1861, at the office of the Navy Department, and then and there, with their unanimous concurrence, I directed that an armed revenue cutter should proceed to sea, to afford protection to the commercial marine, and especially the California treasure ships then on their way to this coast. I also directed the commandant of the navy yard at Boston to purchase or charter, and arm as quickly as possible, five steamships, for purposes of public defence. I directed the commandant of the navy yard at Philadelphia to purchase, or charter and arm, an equal number for the same purpose. I directed the commandant at New York to purchase, or charter and arm, an equal number. I directed Commander Gillis  to purchase, or charter and arm, and put to sea two other vessels. Similar directions were given to Commodore DuPont,  with a view to the opening of passages by water to and from the capital. I directed the several officers to take the advice and obtain the aid and efficient services in the matter of his excellency Edwin D. Morgan, the governor of New York, or, in his absence, George D. Morgan, William M. Evarts, R. M. Blatchford, and Moses H. Grinnell, who were, by my directions, especially empowered by the Secretary of the Navy to act for his department in that crisis, in matters pertaining to the forwarding of troops and supplies for the public defence. On the same occasion I directed that Governor Morgan and Alexander Cummings, of the city of New York, should be authorized by the Secretary of War, Simon Cameron, to make all necessary arrangements for the transportation of troops and munitions of war, in aid and assistance of the officers of the army of the United States, until communication by mails and telegraph should be completely re-established between the cities of Washington and New York. No security was required to be given by them, and either of them was authorized to act in case of inability to consult with the other. On the same occasion I authorized and directed the Secretary of the Treasury to advance, without requiring security, two millions of dollars of public money to John A. Dix, George Opdyke, and Richard M. Blatchford, of New York, to be used by them in meeting such requisitions as should be directly consequent upon the military and naval measures necessary for the defence and support of the government, requiring them only to act without compensation, and to report their transactions when duly called upon. The several departments of the government at that time contained so large a number of disloyal persons that it would have been impossible to provide safely, through official agents only, for the performance of the duties thus confided to citizens favorably known for their ability, loyalty, and patriotism. The several orders issued upon these occurrences were transmitted by private messengers, who pursued a circuitous way to the seaboard cities, inland, across the States of Pennsylvania and Ohio and the northern lakes. I believe that by these and other similar measures taken in that crisis, some of which were without any authority of law, the government was saved from overthrow. I am not aware that a dollar of the public funds thus confided without authority of law to unofficial persons was either lost or wasted, although apprehensions of such misdirection occurred to me as objections to those extraordinary proceedings, and were necessarily overruled. I recall these transactions now because my attention has been directed to a resolution which was passed by the House of Representatives on the 30th day of last month, which is in these words: `` Resolved , That Simon Cameron, late Secretary of War, by investing Alexander Cummings with the control of large sums of the public money, and authority to purchase military supplies without restriction, without requiring from him any guarantee for the faithful performance of his duties, when the services of competent public officers were available, and by involving the government in a vast number of contracts with persons not legitimately engaged in the business pertaining to the subject-matter of such contracts, especially in the purchase of arms for future delivery, has adopted a policy highly injurious to the public service, and deserves the censure of the House.'' Congress will see that I should be wanting equally in candor and in justice if I should leave the censure expressed in this resolution to rest exclusively or chiefly upon Mr. Cameron. The same sentiment is unanimously entertained by the heads of departments, who participated in the proceedings which the House of Representatives has censured. It is due to Mr. Cameron to say that, although he fully approved the proceedings, they were not moved nor suggested by himself, and that not only the President but all the other heads of departments were at least equally responsible with him for whatever error, wrong, or fault was committed in the premises. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, May 26, 1862.

To John C. Fremont
Major General Fremont. Washington City, D.C. Moorefield May 27 1862. [9.58 P.M.]
I see you are at Moorefield. You were expressly ordered to march to Harrisonburg What does this mean? A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major Gen. McClellan Washington, May 28. 1862.
What of F. J. Porter's expedition? Please answer. A LINCOLN (Send in Cypher)

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Maj. Gen. McClellan May 28, 1862. 8.40 P.M.
I am very glad of Gen. F. J. Porter's victory. Still, if it was a total rout of the enemy, I am puzzled to know why the Richmond and Fredericksburg Railroad was not seized. Again, as you say you have all the Railroads but the Richmond and Fredericksburg, I am puzzled to see how, lacking that, you can have any, except the scrap from Richmond to West-Point. The scrap of the Virginia Central from Richmond to Hanover Junction, without more, is simply nothing. That the whole force of the enemy is concentrating in Richmond, I think can not be certainly known to you or me. Saxton, at Harper's Ferry, informs us that a large force (supposed to be Jackson's and Ewells) forced his advance from Charlestown to-day. Gen. King telegraphs us from Frederick'sburg that contrabands give certain information that fifteen thousand left Hanover Junction monday morning to re-inforce Jackson. I am painfully impressed with the importance of the struggle before you; and I shall aid you all I can consistently with my view of due regard to all points.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) A. LINCOLN

To Irvin McDowell
Gen. McDowell Washington City, D.C. Manassas Junction May 28, 1862. 1 P.M
Gen. McClellan, at half past six P.M. yesterday telegraphed that Fitz John Porter's Division had fought and driven thirteen thousand of the enemy, under Gen. Branch  from Hanover Court-House, and was driving them from a stand they had made on the Rail-Road, at the time the messenger left. Two hours later he telegraphed that Stoneman had captured an Engine and six cars on the Virginia Central which he at once sent to communicate with F. J. Porter. Nothing further from McClellan. If Porter effects a lodgement on both R.R. near Hanover C.H. consider whether your force in front of Fredericksburg should not push through and join him. A. LINCOLN

To Irvin McDowell
Major-General McDowell: Washington, May 28, 1862.
Following received from Brigadier-General Hamilton: Harper's Ferry, May 28, 1862. Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War: There is very little doubt that Jackson's force is between Winchester and Charlestown. His troops were too much fatigued to pursue Banks. A large body of rebel cavalry is near Charlestown now. Jackson and Ewell were near Bunker Hill yesterday at noon. Of this there is no doubt. A. LINCOLN.

To Irvin McDowell
Gen. McDowell Washington, Mannassas Junction May 28. 1862. 4. P.M.
You say Gen. Geary's scouts report that they find no enemy this side of the Blue Ridge. Neither do I. Have they been to the Blue Ridge looking for them? A. LINCOLN

To Irvin McDowell
Gen. McDowell Washington City, D.C. Mannassas Junction May 28, 1862---5.40. P.M.
I think the evidence now preponderates that Ewell and Jackson are still about Winchester. Assuming this, it is, for you a question of legs. Put in all the speed you can. I have told Fremont as much, and directed him to drive at them as fast as possible. By the way, I suppose you know, Fremont has got up to Moorefield, instead of going to Harrisonburg. A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for Ward H. Lamon
May 28, 1862
The bearer of this, W. H. Lamon, is Marshal of D.C,---my particular friend, born & raised at Bunker-Hill, an excellent horse-man, and, I think, will be most valuable for scouting purposes. May 28, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Maj. Gen. Banks Washington City, D.C. Williamsport, Md. May 29, 1862. 12. M.
Gen. McDowell's advance should & probably will be at or near Front Royal at 12. M to-morrow. Gen. Fremont will be at or near Strasburg as soon. Please watch the enemy closely, and follow & harrass and detain him, if he attempts to retire. I mean this for Gen. Saxton's force as well as that immediately with you. A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
Maj. Gen. Fremont Washington City, D.C. Moorefield, Va. May 29, 1862. 12. M.
Gen. McDowell's advance, if not checked by the enemy, should, and probably will, be at Front-Royal by 12 (noon) to-morrow. His force, when up, will be about twenty thousand. Please have your force at Strasburg, or (if the route you are moving on does not lead to that point) as near Strasburg as the enemy may be, by the same time. Your despatch No. 30, received, and satisfactory. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
(Cypher) Washington City, D.C. Major General McClellan: May 29, 1862. 101/2 A. M.
I think we shall be able, within three days, to tell you certainly, whether any considerable force of the enemy, Jackson, or any one else is moving onto Harper's Ferry, or vicinity. Take this expected developement into your calculations. A. LINCOLN---

To Irvin McDowell
Maj. Gen. McDowell Washington City, D.C. Manassas Junction May 29 1862. 12. M.
Gen. Fremont's force should, and probably will, be at or near Strasburg by twelve (noon) to-morrow. Try to have your force, or the advance of it, at Front-Royal, as soon. A. LINCOLN.

To Randolph B. Marcy
Gen. R. B. Marcy Washington, McClellan's Head Quarters May 29, 1862, 10. A. M.
Yours just received. I think it can-not be certainly known whether the force which fought Gen. Porter is the same which recently confronted McDowell. Another item of evidence bearing on it is that Gen. Branch commanded against Porter, while it was Gen. Anderson who was in front of McDowell. He and McDowell were in correspondence about prisoners. A. LINCOLN

To Randolph B. Marcy
Gen. R. B. Marcy Washington City, D. C. McClellan's Head Quarters May 29, 1862. 1.20 P. M.
Your despatch, as to South Anna, and Ashland being seized by our forces this morning, is received. Understanding these points to be on the Richmond and Fredericksburg Railroad, I heartily congratulate the country, and thank Gen. McClellan and his army for their seizure. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 29, 1862
This boy is said to be only nineteen years of age, and so diseased as to be unfit for Military duty. As nearly the entire Congressional delegations from Ky. & Va. ask his release, the Secretary of War will please bail him to the bearer, who is his brother-in-law. May 29, 1862. A. LINCOLN.

To an Unidentified Person

Please see Mr. Smith the bearer, a moment. A. L. May 29, 1862

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Majr. Gen. Banks Washington City, D. C. Williamsport, Md. May 30, 1862 101/4 A. M.
If the enemy, in force, is in or about Martinsburg, Charlestown, and Winchester, or any or all of them, he may come in collision with Fremont; in which case I am anxious that your force, with you, and at Harper's Ferry, should so operate as to assist Fremont, if possible. The same, if the enemy should engage McDowell. This was the meaning of my despatch yesterday. A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
Maj. Gen. Fremont Washington City, D. C. Moorefield, Va. May 30. 1862 111/2 A. M.
Yours of this morning from Moorefield, just received. There can not be more than twenty, probably not more than fifteen thousand of the enemy, at or about Winchester. Where is your force? It ought this minute to be near Strasburg. Answer at once. A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
Major Gen. Fremont Washington City, D. C. Moorefield, Va. May 30, 1862 21/2 P. M.
Yours saying you will reach Strasburg, or vicinity, at five PM, saturday, has been received and sent to Gen. McDowell, & he directed to act in view of it. You must be up to time you promise if possible. Corinth was evacuated last night and in occupied by our troops to-day---the enemy gone South to Okalona [ sic ] on the Railroad to Mobile. A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
Maj. Gen. Fremont Washington City. D. C. Moorefield  May 30. 1862 91/2 P. M.
I send you a despatch just received from Gen. Saxton at Harper's Ferry. (Here insert it at length) It seems the game is before you. Have sent a copy to Gen. McDowell. A. LINCOLN

To Irvin McDowell
Maj. Gen. McDowell. Washington City, D. C. Manassas Junction. May 30. 1862. 10. A. M.
I somewhat apprehend that Fremont's force, in it's present condition, may not be quite strong enough in case it comes in collision with the enemy. For this additional reason, I wish you to push forward your column as rapidly as possible. Tell me what number your force reaching Front Royal will amount to. A. LINCOLN

To Irvin McDowell
Major Gen. McDowell Washington City, D.C. Rectortown May 30, 1862. 12.40. [P.M.]
Your despatch of to-day received, and is satisfactory. Fremont has nominally twenty-two thousand, really about seventeen thousand. Blencker's Division is part of it. I have a despatch from Fremont this morning, not telling me where he is, but he says ``Scouts and men from Winchester represent Jacksons force variously at thirty to sixty thousand. With him Gen. Ewell and Longstreet.'' The high figures erroneous of course. Do you not know where Longstreet is? Corinth is evacuated and occupied by us.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) A. LINCOLN.

To Irvin McDowell
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McDowell May 30. 1862. 21/2 P.M.
Herewith I send a telegram just received from Gen. Fremont. The despatch is dated of last night, and the point he says he will be at, five o'clock Saturday afternoon, is ``Strasburg, or as near it, as it may be to the enemy at that time.'' I direct Fremont to come to time as fixed by himself, and you will act your discretion, taking this information into your calculation. A. LINCOLN

To Irvin McDowell
Maj. Gen. McDowell Washington City. D.C. Rectortown, Va May 30. 1862. 91/2 P.M.
I send you a despatch just received from Gen. Saxton at Harper's Ferry--- (Here insert it at length) It seems the game is before you. Have sent a copy to Gen. Fremont A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. May 30, 1862
I transmit to the Senate, for its consideration with a view to ratification, a Treaty of Amity, Commerce, Consular privileges and Extradition between the United States and the Republic of Salvador, signed in this City on the 29th. instant. It is believed that, though this instrument contains no stipulation which may not be found in some subsisting Treaty between the United States and Foreign Powers, it will prove to be mutually advantageous. Several of the Republics of this hemisphere, among which is Salvador, are alarmed at a supposed sentiment tending to reactionary movements against Republican institutions on this continent. It seems therefore to be proper that we should show to any of them who may apply for that purpose, that, compatibly with our cardinal policy and with an enlightened view of our own interests, we are willing to encourage them by strengthening our ties of good will and good neighborhood with them. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 30 May 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let the appointment be made as within requested by Senator Henderson. A. LINCOLN May 30. 1862.

To Elihu B. Washburne
May 30, 1862
The President directs Mr. Washburne to say to his German friends in N.Y. that Col. Willich has already been appointed a brigadier General A. LINCOLN Executive Mansion, May 30, 1862.

To George A. McCall
Washington, May 31, 1862---3.35.
Brigadier-General McCall, Commanding, Fredericksburg: Are you about to withdraw from Fredericksburg; and, if so, why, and by whose orders? A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan May 31, 1862. 10.20 P.M.
A circle whose circumference shall pass through Harper's Ferry, Front-Royal, and Strasburg, and whose center shall be a little North East of Winchester, almost certainly has within it this morning, the forces of Jackson, Ewell, and Edward Johnson. Quite certainly they were within it two days ago. Some part of these forces attacked Harper's Ferry at dark last evening, and are still in sight this morning. Shields---with McDowell's advance. re-took Front Royal at 11 A.M. yesterday, with a dozen of our own prisoners taken there a week ago, one hundred and fifty of the enemy, two locomotives and eleven cars, some other property and stores, and saved the bridge. Fremont, from the direction of Moorefield, promises to be at or near Strasburg at 5 P.M. to-day. Banks, at Williamsport, with his old force, and his new force at Harpers Ferry, is directed to co-operate. Shields, at Front-Royal, reports a rumor of still an additional force of the enemy, supposed to be Anderson's, having entered the valley of Virginia. This last may or may not be true. Corinth is certainly in the hands of Gen. Halleck. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan June 1. 1862. 91/2 [A.M.]
You are probably engaged with the enemy. I suppose he made the attack. Stand well on your guard---hold all your ground, or yield any only, inch by inch and in good order. This morning we merge Gen. Wool's department into yours, giving you command of the whole, and sending Gen. Dix to Fortress-Monroe, and Gen. Wool to Fort-McHenry. We also send Gen. Sigel to report to you for duty. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan. June 1, 1862. 1.15. P.M.
You are already notified that Gen. Sigel is to report to you for duty. I suggest---(do not order) that he have command of such of the forces about Fort-Monroe, Norfolk, Newports-News, &c. as you may see fit to put into active service, or such other command as may be suitable to his rank. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan. June 1, 1862. 5. P.M.
Thanks for what you could , and did say, in your despatch of noon to-day to the Sec. of War. If the enemy shall not have renewed the attack this afternoon, I think the hardest of your work is done. Shields' advance came in collision with part of the enemy yesterday evening six miles from Front-Royal in a direction between Winchester & Strausburg, driving them back, capturing a few prisoners and one rifled cannon. Firing in that direction to-day, heard both from Harper's Ferry and Front Royal, indicate a probability that Fremont has met the enemy. We have concluded to send Gen. Sigel to Harper's Ferry, so that what I telegraphed you about him this morning, is revoked.  Dix goes to Fort-Monroe to-night. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 2, 1862.
Judge Pettis having resigned, as appears by his letter herewith inclosed please send me a nomination for Allen A. Bradford as his successor. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Sec. of Treasury Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Washington June 2. 1862
Please send a nomination for George W. Lane of Indiana as Superintendent of the Mint at Denver, Colorado Territory. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Montgomery C. Meigs
Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, June 2, 1862.
This will introduce to you Judge Nathaniel Niles of Belleville, Illinois, a personal friend of mine, and one of our most estimable citizens. Yours Truly A. LINCOLN Gen. M. C. Meigs Quarter Master General.

Memorandum
[c. June 2, 1862]
Profoundly laid by.

To James W. Ripley

Will Gen. Ripley please consider whether this Musket-shell, would be a valuable missile in battle? A. LINCOLN June 2. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Secretary of War please have this claim investigated, and if found just and lawful have it paid. A. LINCOLN June. 2. 1862.

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Majr. Gen. McClellan June 3 1862
With these continuous rains, I am very anxious about the Chickahominy so close in your rear, and crossing your line of communication. Please look well to it. A. LINCOLN

To Irvin McDowell
Majr. Genl. McDowell Washington City, D.C. Front-Royal, Va June 3, 1862 6.15 P.M.
Anxious to know whether Shields can head or flank Jackson. Please tell about where Shields and Jackson respectively are, at the time this reaches you. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
June 4, 1862
Let a pardon be issued in this case agreeably to the recommendation of the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
June 4, 1862
I said yesterday if the Kentucky delegation or a majority of them, would ask in writing, for the pardon of Franks, I would grant it. Having so asked, then the Attorney General will please make out the pardon. Also exercise his discretion as to directing `` Nolle prossequis '' June 4. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Majr. Gen. Halleck. Washington, D.C., Hallecks head Quarters Corinth--- June 4, 1862.
Your despatch of to-day to Sec. of War received. Thanks for the good news it brings. Have you anything from Memphis or other parts of the Mississippi river? Please answer. A. LINCOLN.

To William A. Hammond

Surgeon-General please see Mrs. Bradley, whom I do not know, & redress her grievance, if she have any real one. June. 4. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
Washington City, D.C. To the House of Representatives: June 4th, 1862
I transmit herewith a Report of the Secretary of War, in answer to the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 2d. of June, in relation to the authority and action of the Honorable Edward Stanly, Military Governor of North Carolina. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Andrew Johnson
Hon. Andrew Johnson Washington, D.C., Nashville, Tenn. June 4, 1862.
Do you really wish to have control of the question of releasing rebel prisoners so far as they may be Tennesseeans? If you do, please tell us so distinctly. Your answer not to be made public. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To, the Senate of the United States. June 4, 1862
In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of the 29th. ultimo, adopted in Executive Session, requesting information in regard to the claims of Citizens of the United States on Paraguay, and the correspondence relating thereto, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, June, 4th. 1862.

To Henry W. Halleck
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. Halleck June 5, 1862 91/2 P.M.
I have received the following despatch from Gen. McClellan, which I transmit for your consideration. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
PRIVATE War Department Hon. Sec. of War. Washington City, D.C. My dear Sir June 5. 1862
Herewith I return you the papers in relation to the proposed reappointment of William Kellogg, Jr. to a Cadetship. Upon Gen. Totten's statement of the case I think it is natural that he should feel as he expresses himself. And yet the case comes upon me in the very strongest way to be painful to me. Hon. William Kellogg, the father, is not only a member of Congress from my state, but he is my personal friend of more than twenty years' standing, and of whom I had many personal kindnesses. This matter touches him very deeply---the feelings of a father for a child---as he thinks, all the future of his child. I can not be the instrument to crush his heart. According to strict rule he has the right to make the re-nomination. Let the appointment be made. It needs not to become a precedent. Hereafter let no resignation be accepted under demerit amounting to cause for dismissal, unless upon express stipulation in writing that the cadet resigning shall not be re-nominated. In this I mean no censure upon Gen. Totten; and although I have marked this note `` private '' I am quite willing for him to see it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
June 5, 1862
As Brigadier General McKean, now resigning, was appointed at the request of the Iowa Senators, I think it not unreasonable that his vacancy should be filled as within requested. June 5. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
June 5, 1862
If the War Department or Major Gen. Halleck can assign Col. Woodruff to the command of a Brigade, without injustice to any other, I shall be gratified. A. LINCOLN June 5. 1862. Let Col. Woodruff be appointed a Brig. Genl. of vols. June 9. 1862. A LINCOLN

To Caleb B. Smith

Sec. of Interior please send me a nomination according to the within. A. LINCOLN June 6. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 6. 1862.
I need not tell you how much I would like to oblige Capt. Dahlgren. I now learn, not from him, that he would be gratified for his son Ulric Dahlgren, to be appointed a lieutenant in the Army. Please find a place for him. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
June 6, 1862
I am quite willing, and even should be pleased, for Capt. Edwards to be transferred as he desires, if it can be done consistently with the public interest. A. LINCOLN June 6. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let the appointment be made, as within requested. June 6. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington, D.C., Majr. Gen. McClellan June 7th 1862.
Your despatch about Chattanooga and Dalton was duly received and sent to Gen. Halleck. I have just received the following answer from him. We have Fort-Pillow, Randolph, and Memphis. A LINCOLN

Recommendation for Edward Burke
June 7, 1862
The bearer of this, Edward Burke [Benke?], has been here at the White-House, several months, during my residence here, and has appeared to me to be a quiet, orderly, and faithful man. June 7, 1862 A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dahlgren

Capt. Dahlgren, will be interested to accompany the bearer of this to see a new patern of gun. A. LINCOLN June 8. (1862)

To Henry W. Halleck
Majr. Gen. Halleck. Washington, D.C., Corinth, Miss. June 8, 1862.
We are changing one of the departmental lines so as to give you all of Kentucky and Tennessee. In your movement upon Chattanooga &c I think it probable that you include some combination of the force near Cumberland Gap under Gen. Morgan. Do you? A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Major Gen. Banks Washington City, D.C. Winchester June 9. 1862
We are arranging a general plan for the valley of the Shenandoah; and, in accordance with this, you will move your main force to the Shenandoah at or opposite Front-Royal as soon as possible. A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
Washington City, D.C. Maj. Gen. Fremont June 9. 1862
Halt at Harrisonburg, pursuing Jackson no farther; get your force well in hand, and stand on the defensive, guarding against a movement of the enemy either back towards Strasburg, or towards Franklin, and await further orders which will soon be sent you. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Hon. Andrew Johnson Washington, D.C., Nashville, Tenn. June 9 1862.
Your despatch about seizing seventy rebels to exchange for a like number of Union men, was duly received. I certainly do not disapprove the proposition. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
June 10, 1862
Unless the Attorney-General knows some reason to the contrary, he will please send me a nomination for A. Cameron Hunt, of Colorado Territory, to be Marshal of that District, in place of Copeland Townsend, removed. A. LINCOLN June. 10. 1862.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
June 10, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a copy of a treaty for the suppression of the African slave trade, between the United States and her Britannic Majesty, signed in this city on the 7th of April last, and the ratifications of which were exchanged at London on the 20th ultimo. A copy of the correspondence which preceded the conclusion of the instrument, between the Secretary of State and Lord Lyons, her Britannic Majesty's envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary, is also herewith transmitted. It is desirable that such legislation as may be necessary to carry the treaty into effect should be enacted as soon as may comport with the convenience of Congress. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, June 10, 1862.

To Edward Bates

The Attorney-General will please make out a pardon, according to the within petition of the Judges who tried the case, and others. June. 11. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
June 11, 1862
Our little disinterested woman of last year, is again upon me for the pardon of Isaac Lambert. I propose to the Attorney General, that the pardon be granted. A. LINCOLN June 11, 1862.

To Edward Bates

I incline to grant a pardon in this case; and if the Attorney-General does not dissent, he will please have the pardon made out June 11. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
June 11, 1862
Mrs. Harwood is very anxious for her brother, William Luce, to be appointed a Lieutenant of Engineers; and, as the within testimonials seem to be ample, I shall be glad for her to be obliged, if there is a vacancy to which he can be appointed. June. 11. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
June 11, 1862.
The President respectfully refers the inclosed to the Secretary of War, with the expression of his confidence in the energy and faithfulness of General White.

To Edward Bates
[June 12, 1862]
Will the Attorney General please furnish me the information sought by the within resolution so far as the means for so doing may be in his Department? A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
Washington City, D.C. Maj. Gen. Fremont. June 12. 1862
Accounts which we do not credit, represent that Jackson is largely reinforced, and is turning upon you. Stand well on your guard, get your forces well in hand, and keep us well and frequently advised; and if you find yourself really pressed by a superior force of the enemy, fall back cautiously towards, or to, Winchester, according to circumstances; and we will in, due time, have Gen. Banks in position to sustain you. Do not fall back of Harrisonburg, unless upon tolerably clear necessity. We understand Jackson is on the other side of the Shenandoah from you, and hence can not, in any event, press you into any necessity of a precipitate withdrawal. A. LINCOLN. P.S. Yours, preferring Mount Jackson, to Harrisonburg is just received. On this point, use your discretion, remembering that our object is to give such protection as you can to Western Virginia. Many thanks to yourself, officers, and men, for the gallant battle of last sunday. A. L.

To the House of Representatives
Executive Mansion, Washington, June 12, 1862.
The Honorable House of Representatives--- In obedience to the resolution of your honorable body, of the 9th. Inst. requesting certain information in regard [to] the Circuit Court of the United States for the State of California, and the judge of said Court, I have the honor to transmit a letter of the Attorney General, with copies of two other letters, and of an indorsement of my own upon one of them, all which, taken together, contain all the information within my power to give upon the subject. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Larned
Pay-Master-General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, June 12. 1862.
The bearer of this, a french lady, so far as I can understand her, had a son in our volunteer Army, who was made a prisoner at Bull-Run, and has since died, at Mobile. He was only seventeen years of age; and she wishes, if possible, to draw what is due him, or some part of it. You will know, while I do not, whether this is possible. She is in great distress; and I shall be glad if you will kindly hear her, & do for her the best you can. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. Fremont June 13 1862
We can not afford to keep your force, and Banks', and McDowell's, engaged in keeping Jackson South of Strasburg and Front-Royal. You fought Jackson alone, and worsted him. He can have no substantial reinforcement, so long as a battle is pending at Richmond. Surely you and Banks in supporting distance are capable of keeping him from returning to Winchester. But if Sigel be sent forward to you, and McDowell (as he must) be put to other work, Jackson will break through at Front Royal again. He is already on the right side of the Shenandoah to do it, and on the wrong side of it to attack you. The orders already sent you and Banks place you and him in the proper positions for the work assigned you. Jackson can not move his whole force on either of you, before the other can learn of it, and go to his assistance. He can not divide his force, sending part against each of you because he will be too weak for either. Please do as I directed in the order of the 8th. and my despatch of yesterday, the 12th. and neither you nor Banks will be overwhelmed by Jackson. By proper scouts-look-outs, and beacons of smokes by day, and fires by night, you can always have timely notice of the enemies approach. I know not as to you, but by some, this has been too much neglected. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
Executive Mansion Washington June 13, 1862.
Fellow-citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives: I herewith transmit a Memorial addressed, and presented to me, in behalf of the State of New York, in favor of enlarging the locks of the Erie and Oswego canals. While I have not given, nor have leisure to give the subject a careful examination, its great importance is obvious and unquestionable. The large amount of valuable statistical information which is collated and presented in the memorial, will greatly facilitate the mature consideration of the subject, which I respectfully ask for it at your hands. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
June 14, 1862
If the Attorney General is of opinion that the President has the legal power to remit the fine in this case, let it be considered as done, and let any necessary paper for that object be prepared. June. 14. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
War Department, Washington City, D.C., Major-General Fremont: June 15, 1862.
My Dear Sir: Your letter of the 12th, by Colonel Zagonyi, is just received. In answer to the principal part of it I repeat the substance of an order of the 8th and one or two telegraphic despatches sent you since. We have no indefinite power of sending re-enforcements; so that we are compelled rather to consider the proper disposal of the forces we have than of those we could wish to have. We may be able to send you some dribs by degrees, but I do not believe we can do more. As you alone beat Jackson last Sunday I argue that you are stronger than he is to-day, unless he has been re-enforced; and that he cannot have been materially re-enforced, because such re-enforcement could only have come from Richmond, and he is much more likely to go to Richmond than Richmond is to come to him. Neither is very likely. I think Jackson's game---his assigned work---now is to magnify the accounts of his numbers and reports of his movements, and thus by constant alarms keep three or four times as many of our troops away from Richmond as his own force amounts to. Thus he helps his friends at Richmond three or four times as much as if he were there. Our game is not to allow this. Accordingly, by the order of the 8th, I directed you to halt at Harrisonburg, rest your force, and get it well in hand, the objects being to guard against Jackson's returning by the same route to the Upper Potomac, over which you have just driven him out, and at the same time give some protection against a raid into West Virginia. Already I have given you discretion to occupy Mount Jackson instead, if, on full consideration, you think best. I do not believe Jackson will attack you, but certainly he cannot attack you by surprise; and if he comes upon you in superior force you have but to notify us, fall back cautiously, and Banks will join you in due time. But while we know not whether Jackson will move at all, or by what route, we cannot safely put you and Banks both on the Strasburg line, and leave no force on the Front Royal line, the very line upon which he prosecuted his late raid. The true policy is to place one of you on one line and the other on the other, in such positions that you can unite on either once you actually find Jackson moving upon it. And this is precisely what we are doing. This protects that part of our frontier, so to speak, and liberates McDowell to go to the assistance of McClellan. I have arranged this, and am very unwilling to have it deranged. While you have only asked for Sigel I have spoken only of Banks, and this because Sigel's force is now the principal part of Banks's force. About transferring General Schenck's command, the purchase of supplies, and the promotion and appointment of officers  mentioned in your letter, I will consult with the Secretary of War to-morrow. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
War Department Washington City, D. C. Major General McClellan June 15, 1862
My dear Sir: The night between your two late battles of Saturday and Sunday, I went earnestly to work to find a way of putting Gen. Wool's force under your control without wounding any one's feelings.  But after all, Gen. Dix was a little hurt at being taken from an independent command and put in a dependent one.  I could not help this without giving up the principal object of the move. So soon as you can, (which I do not expect is yet,) I wish you to give me the benefit of your suggestions as to how an independent command can be given him without detriment. The Secretary of War has turned over to me your despatch about sending McDowell to you by water, instead of by land.  I now fear he can not get to you either way in time. Shields' Division has got so terribly out of shape, out at elbows, and out at toes, that it will require a long time to get it in again. I expect to see McDowell within a day or two, when I will again talk with him about the mode of moving. McCall's Division has nearly or quite reached you by now. This, with what you get from Gen. Wool's old command, and the new regiments sent you, must give you an increase since the late battles of over twenty thousand. Doubtless the battles and other causes have decreased you half as much in the same time; but then the enemy have lost as many in the same way. I believe I would come and see you, were it not that I fear my presence might divert you and the army from more important matters. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John C. Fremont
``Cypher'' Major General Fremont Washington City, D.C. Mount Jackson, Va. June 16, 1862
Your despatch of yesterday reminding me of a supposed understanding that I would furnish you a corps of thirty five thousand men, and asking of me ``the fulfillment of this understanding'' is received. I am ready to come to a fair settlement of accounts with you on the fulfillment of understandings. Early in March last, when I assigned you to the command of the Mountain Department, I did tell you I would give you all the force I could, and that I hoped to make it reach thirty five thousand. You, at the same time told me that, within a reasonable time, you would seize the Railroad at, or East of, Knoxville, Tenn. if you could. There was then in the Department a force supposed to be twentyfive thousand---the exact number as well known to you as to me. After looking about two or three days you called and distinctly told me that if I would add the Blecker [Blenker] Division to the force already in the Department, you would undertake the job. The Blecker [Blenker] division contained ten thousand; and at the expense of great dissatisfaction to Gen. McClellan, I took it from his army, and gave it to you. My promise was litterally fulfilled. I had given you all I could, and I had given you very nearly if not quite thirtyfive thousand. Now for yours. On the 23rd. of May, largely over two months afterwards, you were at Franklin Va, not within three hundred miles of Knoxville, nor within eighty miles of any part of the Railroad East of it---and not moving forward, but telegraphing here that you could not move for lack of everything. Now, do not misunderstand me. I do not say you have not done all you could. I presume you met unexpected difficulties; and I beg you to believe that as surely as you have done your best, so have I. I have not the power now to fill up your corps to thirtyfive thousand. I am not demanding of you to do the work of thirtyfive thousand. I am only asking of you to stand cautiously on the defensive, get your force in order, and give such protection as you can to the valley of the Shenandoah, and to Western Virginia. Have you received the orders? and will you act upon them?  A. LINCOLN.

To Carl Schurz
Brigadier General Schurz. Washington City, D.C. Mount Jackson, Va. June 16, 1862 [12:30 P. M.]
Your long letter is received. The information you give is valuable. You say it is fortunate that Fremont did not intercept Jackson---that Jackson had the superior force, and would have over-whelmed him. If this is so, how happened it that Fremont fairly fought and worsted him on the 8th.? Or, is the account that he did fight and worst him, false, and fabricated? Both Gen. Fremont and you speak of Jackson having beaten Shields. By our accounts, he did not beat Shields. He had no engagement with Shields. He did meet, and drive back with disaster, about two thousand of Shields' advance, till they were met by an additional Brigade of Shields, when Jackson himself turned and retreated. Shields himself, and more than half his force, were not nearer than twenty miles of any of it.  A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
Executive Mansion Washington City. June 17. 1862
To the Speaker of the House of Representatives. The Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 9. instant, asking whether any legislation is necessary in order to give effect to the provisions of the Act of April 16, 1862, providing for the re-organization of the Medical Department of the Army, was referred to the Secretary of War, whose report thereon is hereby communicated. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
June 18, 1862
I suppose the question is, ``Can the Marshal, accept command of Regt. guarding prisoners without losing the office of Marshal?'' What says the Attorney General? A. LINCOLN June 18. 1862.

To Henry W. Halleck
Major General Halleck--- Washington, D. C., Corinth, Miss. June 18, 1862.
It would be of both interest and value to us here to know how the expedition towards East Tennessee is progressing, if in your judgment you can give us the information with safety. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
``Cypher'' Washington, D. C., Major General McC[lellan] June 18. 1862.
Yours of to-day making it probable that Jackson has been reinforced by about ten thousand from Richmond, is corroborated by a despatch from Gen. King  at Frederick'sburg, saying a Frenchman just arrived from Richmond by way of Gordon'sville, met ten to fifteen thousand passing through the latter place to join Jackson. If this is true, it is as good as a reinforcement to you of an equal force. I could better dispose of things if I could know about what day you can attack Richmond, and would be glad to be informed, if you think you can inform me with safety. A. LINCOLN

To Oliver P. Morton
Gov. O. P. Morton Head Quarters Army of the Potomac, Indianapolis, Ia. June 18, 1862.
I suppose it will not vacate the office of Marshal, for the officer to command of a Regiment guarding prisoners at Camp-Merton. A LINCOLN---

To Lorenzo Thomas
Adjutant General. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 18. 1862.
Please see Gov. Yates and Gov. Wood, and if it be consistent with regulations, do what they desire about a mustering officer at Springfield, Illinois. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D. C. Major Genl. McClellan June 19. 1862
Yours of last night just received, and for which I thank you. If large re-inforcements are going from Richmond to Jackson, it proves one of two things, either that they are very strong at Richmond, or do not mean to defend the place desperately. On reflection, I do not see how re-inforcements from Richmond to Jackson could be in Gordon'sville as reported by the Frenchman. It induces a doubt whether the Frenchman & your deserters have not all been sent to deceive. A. LINCOLN

To the Provost Marshal
June 19, 1862
Will the Provost Marshal let me know on what charge it is that Dr. Perkins is arrested? A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan June 20. 1862
We have, this morning, sent you a despatch of Gen. Sigel corroborative of the proposition that Jackson is being re-inforced from Richmond.  This may be reality, and yet may only be contrivance for deception; and to determine which, is perplexing. If we knew it were not true, we could send you some more force, but as the case stands, we do not think we safely can. Still we will watch the signs, and do so if possible. In regard to a contemplated execution of Captains Sprigg and Triplett, the government here has no information whatever, but will inquire and advise you.  A. LINCOLN

Remarks to a Delegation of Progressive Friends
June 20, 1862
The President said that, as he had not been furnished with a copy of the memorial in advance, he could not be expected to make any extended remarks. It was a relief to be assured that the deputation were not applicants for office, for his chief trouble was from that class of persons. The next most troublesome subject was Slavery. He agreed with the memorialists, that Slavery was wrong, but in regard to the ways and means of its removal, his views probably differed from theirs. The quotation in the memorial, from his Springfield speech, was incomplete. It should have embraced another sentence, in which he indicated his views as to the effect upon Slavery itself of the resistance to its extension. The sentiments contained in that passage were deliberately uttered, and he held them now. If a decree of emancipation could abolish Slavery, John Brown would have done the work effectually. Such a decree surely could not be more binding upon the South than the Constitution, and that cannot be enforced in that part of the country now. Would a proclamation of freedom be any more effective? Mr. Johnson replied as follows: ``True, Mr. President, the Constitution cannot now be enforced at the South, but you do not on that account intermit the effort to enforce it, and the memorialists are solemnly convinced that the abolition of Slavery is indispensable to your success.'' The President further said that he felt the magnitude of the task before him, and hoped to be rightly directed in the very trying circumstances by which he was surrounded. Wm. Barnard addressed the President in a few words, expressing sympathy for him in all his embarrassments, and an earnest desire that he might, under divine guidance, be led to free the slaves and thus save the nation from destruction. In that case, nations yet unborn would rise up to call him blessed and, better still, he would secure the blessing of God. The President responded very impressively, saying that he was deeply sensible of his need of Divine assistance. He had sometime thought that perhaps he might be an instrument in God's hands of accomplishing a great work and he certainly was not unwilling to be. Perhaps, however, God's way of accomplishing the end which the memorialists have in view may be different from theirs. It would be his earnest endeavor, with a firm reliance upon the Divine arm, and seeking light from above, to do his duty in the place to which he had been called.

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major General McClellan June 21 1862 [6 P.M.]
Your despatch of yesterday, 2. P.M. was received this morning. If it would not divert too much of your time, and attention from the Army under your immediate command, I would be glad to have your views as to present state of Military affairs throughout the whole country---as you say you would be glad to give them. I would rather it should be by letter, than by Telegraph, because of the better chance of secrecy. As to numbers and position of the troops, not under your command, in Virginia and elsewhere, even if I could do it with accuracy, which I can not, I would rather not transmit either by telegraph or letter, because of the chances of it's reaching the enemy. I would be very glad to talk with you, but you can not leave your camp, and I can not well leave here. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
[June 21, 1862]
Tell General McDowell what Banks says. Tell him we incline to have Shields remain a few days at Front Royal, and ask him to state his strongest objections, if he has any.

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Major Genl. Banks Washington City, D.C. Middletown June 22 1862
I am very glad you are looking well to the West for a movement of the enemy in that direction. You know my anxiety on that point. All was quiet at Gen. McClellan's Head-Quarters at 2 o'clock to-day.  A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. June 23, 1862
On the 7th. day of December, 1861, I submitted to the Senate the project of a Treaty between the United States and Mexico, which had been proposed to me by Mr Corwin, our Minister to Mexico, and respectfully requested the advice of the Senate there-upon. On the 25th. day of February, last, a resolution was adopted by the Senate to the effect, ``That it is not advisable to negotiate a Treaty that will require the United States to assume any portion of the principal or interest of the debt of Mexico, or that will require the concurrence of European Powers.'' This resolution having been duly communicated to me, notice thereof was immediately given by the Secretary of State to Mr. Corwin, and he was informed that he was to consider his instructions, upon the subject referred to, modified by this resolution, and would gove[r]n his course accordingly. That despatch failed to reach Mr Corwin, by reason of the disturbed condition of Mexico, until a very recent date, Mr Corwin being without instructions or thus practically left without instructions to negotiate further with Mexico. In view of the very important events occurring there, he has thought that the interests of the United States would be promoted by the conclusion of two treaties which should provide for a loan to that Republic. He has therefore signed such treaties, and they having been duly ratified by the Government of Mexico, he has transmitted them to me for my consideration. The action of the Senate of course is conclusive against an acceptance of the treaties on my part. I have nevertheless thought it just to our excellent Minister in Mexico, and respectful to the Government of that Republic, to lay the treaties before the Senate,---together with the correspondence which has occurred in relation to them. In performing this duty, I have only to add that the importance of the subject thus submitted to the Senate cannot be over estimated, and I shall cheerfully receive and consider with the highest respect any further advice the Senate may think proper to give upon the subject. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, June, 23, 1862.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: June 23, 1862
The bill which has passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, entitled ``An act to repeal that part of an act of Congress which prohibits the circulation of bank notes of a less denomination than five dollars in the District of Columbia,''  FOOTNOTES}>(2) has received my attentive consideration; and I now return it to the Senate, in which it originated, with the following objections: 1. The bill proposes to repeal the existing legislation, prohibiting the circulation of bank notes of a less denomination than five dollars within the District of Columbia, without permitting the issuing of such bills by banks not now legally authorized to issue them. In my judgment, it will be found impracticable, in the present condition of the currency, to make such a discrimination. The banks have generally suspended specie payments; and a legal sanction given to the circulation of the irredeemable notes of one class of them will almost certainly be so extended, in practical operation, as to include those of all classes, whether authorized or unauthorized. If this view be correct, the currency of the District, should this act become a law, will certainly and greatly deteriorate, to the serious injury of honest trade and honest labor. 2. This bill seems to contemplate no end which cannot be otherwise more certainly and beneficially attained. During the existing war it is peculiarly the duty of the national government to secure to the people a sound circulating medium. This duty has been, under existing circumstances, satisfactorily performed, in part at least, by authorizing the issue of United States notes, receivable for all government dues except customs, and made a legal tender for all debts, public and private, except interest on public debt. The object of the bill submitted to me, namely, that of providing a small note currency during the present suspension, can be fully accomplished by authorizing the issue, as part of any new emission of United States notes made necessary by the circumstances of the country, of notes of a similar character, but of less denomination than five dollars. Such an issue would answer all the beneficial purposes of the bill; would save a considerable amount to the treasury in interest; would greatly facilitate payments, to soldiers and other creditors, of small sums; and would furnish to the people a currency as safe as their own government.  FOOTNOTES}>(3) Entertaining these objections to the bill, I feel myself constrained to withhold from it my approval, and return it for the further consideration and action of Congress. June 23, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
June 23, 1862
Gen. Rousseau was our first active practical Military friend in Kentucky, as the within letter shows, & as I knew before. He raised two regiments of Kentuckians over the river in Indiana, before they would allow him to organize them in Kentucky. He fought bravely at Pittsburg Landing. These things entitle him to a fair hearing, which I ask the Secretary of War to give him. June 23. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, June 23, 1862.
We specially request that the nomination of Col. Benjamin S. Roberts, for a Brigadier General of Volunteers, be withdrawn, and that he be nominated as a Brigadier General by brevet, in the regular army, for meritorious service in New Mexico, and distinguished conduct in the battle of Valverde, to date from the 21st of Feb. 1862. J. COLLAMER JAS. HARLAN The President S. FOOT O. H. BROWNING J. T. WATTS Let it be done. A. LINCOLN June 23, 1862.

Remarks at Jersey City, New Jersey
June 24, 1862
When birds and animals are looked at through a fog they are seen to disadvantage, and so it might be with you if I were to attempt to tell you why I went to see Gen. SCOTT. I can only say that my visit to West Point did not have the importance which has been attached to it; but it conceived [concerned] matters that you understand quite as well as if I were to tell you all about them. Now, I can only remark that it had nothing whatever to do with making or unmaking any General in the country. [Laughter and applause.] The Secretary of War, you know, holds a pretty tight rein on the Press, so that they shall not tell more than they ought to, and I'm afraid that if I blab too much he might draw a tight rein on me.

To Edward Bates
June 26, 1862
Believing that William Griffin, named within, has been sufficiently punished, he is hereby pardoned of so much of the sentence against him as has not already been executed. A. LINCOLN June 26, 1862.

To John W. Crisfield
Executive Mansion, Hon. John W. Crisfield. Washington, June 26. 1862.
My dear Sir: I have been considering the appeal made by yourself, and Senator Pearce in behalf of Judge Carmichael. His charge to the Grand-Jury, was left with me by the Senator, and, on reading it, I must confess I was not very favorably impressed towards the Judge. The object of the charge, I understand, was to procure prossecutions, and punishment of some men for arresting, or doing violence to some secessionists---that is, the Judge was trying to help a little, by giving the protection of law to those who were endevoring to overthrow the Supreme law---trying if he could find a safe place for certain men to stand on the constitution, whilst they should stab it in another place. But possibly I am mistaken. The Secretary of War and I have agreed that if the Judge will take the oath of allegiance, usually taken in such cases, he may be discharged. Please ascertain, and inform me whether he will do it. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington, June 26, 1862.
Major-General McClellan: Your three dispatches of yesterday in relation to the affair, ending with the statement that you completely succeeded in making your point, are very gratifying. The later one of 6:15 p.m., suggesting the probability of your being overwhelmed by 200,000, and talking of where the responsibility will belong, pains me very much. I give you all I can, and act on the presumption that you will do the best you can with what you have, while you continue, ungenerously I think, to assume that I could give you more if I would. I have omitted and shall omit no opportunity to send you reenforcements whenever I possibly can. A. LINCOLN

Order Constituting the Army of Virginia
Executive Mansion Washington, D.C June 26, 1862
1. . . . . The forces under Major Generals Fremont, Banks and McDowell, including the troops now under Brigadier General Sturgis at Washington, shall be consolidated and form one army, to be called the Army of Virginia. 2. . . . . The command of the Army of Virginia is specially assigned to Major General John Pope as commanding General. The troops of the Mountain Department, heretofore under command of General Fremont shall constitute the first army corps, under the command of General Fremont; the troops of the Shenandoah Department, now under General Banks, shall constitute the second army corps, and be commanded by him; the troops under the command of General McDowell, except those within the fortifications and city of Washington, shall form the third army corps and be under his command. 3. . . . . The Army of Virginia shall operate in such manner as, while protecting western Virginia and the National Capitol from danger or insult, it shall in the speediest manner attack and overcome the rebel forces under Jackson and Ewell, threaten the enemy in the direction of Charlottesville, and render the most effective aid to relieve General McClellan and capture Richmond. 4. . . . . When the Army of the Potomac and the Army of Virginia shall be in position to communicate and directly cooperate at, or before Richmond, the chief command while so operating together shall be governed as, in like cases, by the rules and Articles of War. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate Executive Mansion of the United States. Washington June 26 1862.
The accompanying treaty made and concluded at the City of Washington, on the 24th day of June, 1862, between the United States and the United Bands of the Ottawa Indians of Blanchard's Fork, and of Roche de Boeuf, in Kansas, is transmitted for the consideration and constitutional action of the Senate, agreeably to recommendation of the enclosed letter from the Secretary of the Interior of this date. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Gen Burnside Washington City, D.C. 28th June 1862.
I think you had better go with any reinforcements you can spare to Gen McClellan A. LINCOLN

To Quintin Campbell
Cadet Quintin Campbell Washington D.C. My dear Sir June 28. 1862
Your good mother tells me you are feeling very badly in your new situation. Allow me to assure you it is a perfect certainty that you will, very soon, feel better---quite happy---if you only stick to the resolution you have taken to procure a military education. I am older than you, have felt badly myself, and know , what I tell you is true. Adhere to your purpose and you will soon feel as well as you ever did. On the contrary, if you falter, and give up, you will lose the power of keeping any resolution, and will regret it all your life. Take the advice of a friend, who, though he never saw you, deeply sympathizes with you, and stick to your purpose. Sincerely your friend A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Gen. Dix Washington City, D.C. June 28---1862
Communication with McClellan by White House is cut-off. Strain every nerve to open communications with him by James River, or any way you can. Report to me. A. LINCOLN

To Louis M. Goldsborough
Flag Officer Goldsborough: Washington, D.C. Fort-Monroe June 28, 1862.
Enemy has cut McClellan's communications with White-House, and is driving Stoneman back on that point. Do what you can for him with Gun-boats at or near that place. McClellan's main force is between the Chickahominy and the James. Also do what you can to communicate with him and support him there. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan June 28--- 1862
Save your Army at all events. Will send re-inforcements as fast as we can. Of course they can not reach you to-day, to-morrow, or next day.  I have not said you were ungenerous for saying you needed re-inforcement. I thought you were ungenerous in assuming that I did not send them as fast as I could. I feel any misfortune to you and your Army quite as keenly as you feel it yourself. If you have had a drawn battle, or a repulse, it is the price we pay for the enemy not being in Washington. We protected Washington, and the enemy concentrated on you; had we stripped Washington, he would have been upon us before the troops sent could have got to you. Less than a week ago you notified us that re-inforcements were leaving Richmond to come in front of us. It is the nature of the case, and neither you or the government that is to blame. Please tell at once the present condition and aspect of things. A. LINCOLN P.S. Gen. Pope thinks if you fall back, it would be much better towards York River, than towards the James. As Pope now has charge of the Capital, please confer with him through the telegraph. A. L.

To Oliver P. Morton
Gov. O. P. Morton Washington, D.C., Indianapolis, Ia June 28. 1862.
Your despatch of to-day is just received. I have no recollection of either John R. Cravens, or Cyrus M. Allen having been named to me for appointment under the tax-law. The latter particularly has been my friend, and I am sorry to learn that he is not yours. No appointment has been, or will be made by me, for the purpose of stabbing you. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
[c. June 28, 1862?]
None at all A.L.

To William H. Seward
Hon. W. H. Seward Executive Mansion My dear Sir June 28. 1862.
My view of the present condition of the War is about as follows: The evacuation of Corinth, and our delay by the flood in the Chicahominy, has enabled the enemy to concentrate too much force in Richmond for McClellan to successfully attack. In fact there soon will be no substantial rebel force any where else. But if we send all the force from here to McClellan, the enemy will, before we can know of it, send a force from Richmond and take Washington. Or, if a large part of the Western Army be brought here to McClellan, they will let us have Richmond, and retake Tennessee, Kentucky, Missouri &c. What should be done is to hold what we have in the West, open the Mississippi, and, take Chatanooga & East Tennessee, without more---a reasonable force should, in every event, be kept about Washington for it's protection. Then let the country give us a hundred thousand new troops in the shortest possible time, which added to McClellan, directly or indirectly, will take Richmond, without endangering any other place which we now hold---and will substantially end the war. I expect to maintain this contest until successful, or till I die, or am conquered, or my term expires, or Congress or the country forsakes me; and I would publicly appeal to the country for this new force, were it not that I fear a general panic and stampede would follow---so hard is it to have a thing understood as it really is. I think the new force should be all, or nearly all infantry, principally because such can be raised most cheaply and quickly. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. W. H. Seward. Washington City, D.C. Astor-House---N.Y. June 29, 1862 6 oclock PM 
Not much more than when you left. ``Fulton''  of Baltimore American, is now with us. He left White House at 11. A.M. yesterday. He conversed fully with a Pay-Master who was with Porter's force during the fight of Friday and fell back to near McClellan's Quarters, just a little sooner that [ sic ] Porter did, seeing the whole of it; staid on the Richmond side of the Chickahominy over night and left for White House at 5. AM. Saturday. He says Porter retired in perfect order, under protection of guns, arranged for the purpose, under orders, and not from necessity, and, with all other of our forces, except what was left on purpose to go to White House, was safely in position over the Chickahominy before morning; and that there was heavy firing on the Richmond side began at 5 and ceased at 7 AM. Saturday On the whole, I think we had the better of it up to that point of time. What has happened since we still know not, as we have no communication with Gen. McClellan. A despatch from Col. Ingalls  shows that he thinks McClellan is fighting with the enemy at Richmond to-day, and will be tomorrow. We have no means of knowing upon what Col Ingalls' founds, his opinion. All confirmed about our saving all property. Not a single unwounded straggler came back to the White-House from the field; and the number of wounded reaching there up to 11. A.M. Saturday was not large. A. LINCOLN

Call for Troops
New York, June 30. 1862.
To the Governors of the several States: The capture of New Orleans, Norfolk, and Corinth by the national forces has enabled the insurgents to concentrate a large force at and about Richmond, which place we must take with the least possible delay; in fact, there will soon be no formidable insurgent force except at Richmond. With so large an army there, the enemy can threaten us on the Potomac and elsewhere. Until we have re-established the national authority, all these places must be held, and we must keep a respectable force in front of Washington. But this, from the diminished strength of our Army by sickness and casualties, renders an addition to it necessary in order to close the struggle which has been prosecuted for the last three months with energy and success. Rather than hazard the misapprehension of our military condition and of groundless alarm by a call for troops by proclamation, I have deemed it best to address you in this form. To accomplish the object stated we require without delay 150,000 men, including those recently called for by the Secretary of War. Thus re-enforced, our gallant Army will be enabled to realize the hopes and expectations of the Government and the people. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major Gen. Dix Washington City, D.C. Fort-Monroe June 30, 1862
Is it not probable the enemy have abandoned the line between White House and McClellan's rear? He could have but little object to maintain it; and nothing to subsist upon. Would not Stoneman better move up and see about it. I think a Telegraphic communication can at once be opened to White-House from Williamsburg. The wires must be up still. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
``Cypher'' Major Genl. Halleck Washington, D.C. Corinth, Miss. June 30, 1862.
Would be very glad of twenty five thousand Infantry---no artillery, or cavalry---but please do not send a man if it endangers any place you deem important to hold, or if it forces you to give up, or weaken, or delay the expedition against Chattanooga. To take and hold the Rail-road at, or East of, Cleveland in East Tennessee, I think fully as important as the taking and holding of Richmond. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. W. H. Seward Washington City, D.C. New-York--- June 30 1862
We are yet without communication with Gen. McClellan; and this absence of news, is our point of anxiety. Up to the latest point to which we are posted, he effected everything in such exact accordance with his plan contingently announced to us before the battle began, that we feel justified to hope he has not failed since. He had a severe engagement in getting the part of his army on this side of the Chickahominy over to the other side, in which the enemy lost certainly as much as we did. We are not dissatisfied with this, only that the loss of enemies does not compensate for the loss of friends. The enemy did [can?] not come below White-House[,] certainly is not there now, and probably has abandoned the whole line. Dix' pickets are at New-Kent C.H. A LINCOLN

To James S. Wadsworth

I would be glad if Gen. Wadsworth could give this man employment. A. LINCOLN June 30. 1862.

Memorandum: Appointment of A. Keller, Jr.
West-Point--- [c. July? 1862]
Judge Peters says I promised. I dont remember.

Call for 300,000 Volunteers
Executive Mansion Washington, July 1, 1862.
To the Governors of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Michigan, Tennessee, Missouri, Indiana, Ohio, Minnesota, Illinois, and Wisconsin, and the President of the Military Board of Kentucky: Gentlemen: Fully concurring in the wisdom of the views expressed to me in so patriotic a manner by you in the communication of the 28th day of June, I have decided to call into the service an additional force of 300,000 men. I suggest and recommend that the troops should be chiefly of infantry. The quota of your State would be---.  I trust that they may be enrolled without delay, so as to bring this unnecessary and injurious civil war to a speedy and satisfactory conclusion. An order fixing the quotas of the respective States will be issued by the War Department to-morrow. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Benjamin F. Larned

I think Mr. Merwin should be paid, upon the Pay-Master-General being satisfied that he has performed the service as stated. July 1. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Executive Mansion, Major Genl. McClellan--- Washington, July 1 1862.
It is impossible to re-inforce you for your present emergency. If we had a million of men we could not get them to you in time. We have not the men to send. If you are not strong enough to face the enemy you must find a place of security, and wait, rest, and repair. Maintain your ground if you can; but save the Army at all events, even if you fall back to Fortress-Monroe. We still have strength enough in the country, and will bring it out. A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Concerning Taxes In Rebellious States
July 1, 1862
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, in and by the second section of an Act of Congress passed on the 7th. day of June A.D. 1862, entitled ``An Act for the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts within the United States and for other purposes'' it is made the duty of the President to declare, on or before the first day of July, then next following, by his proclamation, in what States and parts of States insurrection exists: Now, therefore, be it known that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, do hereby declare and proclaim that the States of South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi, Arkansas, Tennessee, North Carolina; and the State of Virginia, except the following counties:--- Hancock, Brooke, Ohio, Marshall, Wetzel, Marion, Monongalia, Preston, Taylor, Pleasants, Tyler, Ritchie, Doddridge, Harrison, Wood, Jackson, Wirt, Roane, Calhoun, Gilmer, Barbour, Tucker, Lewis, Braxton, Upshur, Randolph, Mason, Putnam, Kanawha, Clay, Nicholas, Cabell, Wayne, Boone, Logan, Wyoming, Webster, Fayette and Raleigh, are now in insurrection and rebellion and, by reason thereof, the civil authority of the United States is obstructed so that the provisions of the ``Act to provide increased revenue from imports to pay the interest on the public debt, and for other purposes,'' approved August fifth, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, cannot be peaceably executed, and that the taxes legally chargeable upon Real Estate under the Act last aforesaid, lying within the States and parts of States as aforesaid, together with a penalty of fifty per centum of said taxes shall be a lien upon the Tracts or Lots of the same, severally charged till paid. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this first day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-sixth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: F. W. SEWARD, Acting Secretary of State.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
July 1, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives :--- I most cordially recommend that Captain Andrew H. Foote, of the U.S. Navy, receive a vote of thanks of Congress for his eminent services in organizing the Flotilla on the Western waters, and for his gallantry at Fort Henry, Fort Donelson, Island Number Ten and at various other places, whilst in command of the Naval Forces, embracing a period of nearly Ten months. Washington, D.C, ABRAHAM LNCOLN 1 July 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 1, 1862.
Dear Sir, Please to make out and send me a nomination of Col. Ralph P. Buckland of Ohio to be Brigadier General of Volunteers. Your obt. Servt., ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 1, 1862
Sec. of War please oblige Senator Powell, by giving the limits of Cleveland to Charles F. Johnson, on his parole---the Senator pledging me that the parole will not be violated. He is a prisoner now at, or near Sandusky. A. LINCOLN. July 1, 1862

To an Unknown Person
July 1, 1862
I suppose this man has been doing something for our sick soldiers, and I think it would be no more than fair that he should have a railroad pass to his home at Albany, N. Y. July 1, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Let Calvin [ sic ] Beckwith, named within, be pardoned for so much of his punishment as remains unexecuted A. LINCOLN July. 2. 1862.

To Henry W. Halleck
``Cypher'' Major Gen. Halleck Washington, D.C., Corinth, Miss. July 2 1862.
Your several despatches of yesterday to Sec. of War, and myself, received. I did say and now repeat, I would be exceedingly glad for some re-inforcements from you, still do not send a man, if, in your judgment, it will endanger any point you deem important to hold, or will force you to give up, or weaken, or delay the Chattanooga expedition. Please tell me, could you make me a flying visit, for consultation, without endangering the service in your Department? A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington, D.C., Major Gen. McClellan July 2 1862.
Your despatch of Tuesday morning induces me to hope your Army is having some rest. In this hope, allow me to reason with you a moment. When you ask for fifty thousand men to be promptly sent you, you surely labor under some gross mistake of fact. Recently you sent papers showing your disposal of forces, made last spring, for the defence of Washington, and advising a return to that plan.  I find it included in, and about Washington seventyfive thousand men. Now please be assured, I have not men enough to fill that very plan by fifteen thousand. All of Fremont in the valley, all of Banks, all of McDowell, not with you, and all in Washington, taken together do not exceed, if they reach sixty thousand. With Wool and Dix added to those mentioned, I have not, outside of your Army, seventyfive thousand men East of the mountains. Thus, the idea of sending you fifty thousand, or any other considerable force promptly, is simply absurd. If in your frequent mention of responsibility, you have the impression that I blame you for not doing more than you can, please be relieved of such impression. I only beg that in like manner, you will not ask impossibilities of me. If you think you are not strong enough to take Richmond just now, I do not ask you to try just now. Save the Army, material and personal; and I will strengthen it for the offensive again, as fast as I can. The Governors of eighteen states offer me a new levy of three hundred thousand, which I accept. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin D. Morgan
Gov. E. D. Morgan Washington, D.C., Albany, New-York. July 2 1862.
It was thought safest to mark high enough. It is three hundred thousand. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: July 2, 1862
I herewith return to your honorable body, in which it originated, an act entitled ``An act to provide for additional medical officers of the Volunteer service,'' without my approval. My reason for so doing is that I have approved an act of the same title passed by Congress after the passage of the one first mentioned, for the express purpose of correcting errors in, and superseding the same, as I am informed. Executive Mansion ABRAHAM LINCOLN. July 2, 1862.

To John A. Dix
Major Gen. Dix Washington City, D.C. Fort-Monroe--- July 3, 1862
What news, if any, have you from Gen. Burnside? A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Hon. Andrew Johnson. July 3, 1862.
My Dear Sir: You are aware we have called for a big levy of new troops. If we can get a fair share of them in Tennessee I shall value it more highly than a like number most anywhere else, because of the face of the thing, and because they will be at the very place that needs protection. Please do what you can, and do it quickly. Time is everything. A word on another subject. If we could, somehow, get a vote of the people of Tennessee and have it result properly it would be worth more to us than a battle gained. How long before we can get such a vote? Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Genl. McClellan July 3, 1862.
Yours of 5.30. yesterday is just received. I am satisfied that yourself, officers and men have done the best you could. All accounts say better fighting was never done. Ten thousand thanks for it. On the 28th. we sent Gen. Burnside an order to send all the force he could spare, to you. We then learned that you had requested him to go to Goldsborough, upon which, we said to him our order was intended for your benefit, and we did not wish to be in conflict with your views. We hope you will have help from him soon. To day we have ordered Gen. Hunter to send you all he can spare.  At last advices Halleck thinks he can not send reinforcements, without endangering all he has gained.  A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let Randolph Botts be appointed an Assistant Quarter-Master. July 3. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Union Governors
Gov. E. D. Morgan Washington, My dear Sir--- July 3. 1862. [10:30 A.M.]
I should not want the half of three hundred thousand new troops, if I could have them now . If I had fifty thousand additional troops here now , I believe I could substantially close the war in two weeks. But time is every-thing ; and if I get fifty thousand new men in a month, I shall have lost twenty thousand, old ones during the same month, having gained only thirty thousand, with the difference between old and new troops still against me. The quicker you send, the fewer you will have to send. Time is everything. Please act in view of this. The enemy having given up Corinth, it is not wonderful that he is thereby enabled to check us for a time at Richmond. A. LINCOLN.

To John A. Dix
Major Gen. Dix Washington City, D.C. Fort-Monroe. July 4, 1862
Send forward the despatch to Col Hawkins, and this also. Our order, and Gen. McClellan's to Gen. Burnside being the same, of course we wish it executed as promptly as possible. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major Genl. Halleck Washington City, D.C. Corinth---Miss July 4. 1862.
You do not know how much you would oblige us, if, without abandoning any of your positions, or plans, you could promptly send us even ten thousand infantry. Can you not? Some part of the Corinth Army is certainly fighting McClellan in front of Richmond. Prisoners are in our hands from the late Corinth Army. A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
War Department Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan: July 4. 1862
I understand your position as stated in your letter, and by Gen. Marcy. To reinforce you so as to enable you to resume the offensive within a month, or even six weeks, is impossible. In addition to that arrived, and now arriving from the Potomac, (about ten thousand, I suppose) and about ten thousand I hope you will have from Burnside very soon, and about five thousand from Hunter a little later, I do not see how I can send you another man within a month. Under these circumstances the defensive, for the present, must be your only care. Save the Army---first, where you are, if you can ; and secondly, by removal, if you must. You, on the ground, must be the judge as to which you will attempt, and of the means for effecting it. I but give it as opinion, that with the aid of the Gun-Boats, and the re-inforcements mentioned above, you can hold your present position, provided, and so long as, you can keep the James River open below you. If you are not tolerably confident you can keep the James River open, you had better remove as soon as possible. I do not remember that you have expressed any apprehension as to the danger of having your communication cut on the river below you; yet I do not suppose it can have escaped your attention. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN P.S. If, at any time, you feel able to take the offensive, you are not restrained from doing so. A. L.

Remarks to Delegation of Veterans of 1812
July 4, 1862
MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN: I am indeed very grateful for this courtesy which you have thought fit to extend me (for the time being), the head of the Government. I am exceedingly sorry that the continual and intense engrossment of my attention by other matters has not permitted me to devote a moment's thought to the manner in which I should receive you. I have no pretty speech, or any other sort of speech, prepared, with which to entertain you for a single moment. I am indeed surrounded, as is the whole country, by very trying circumstances. I am grateful to you for the approbation which you give me of what I have done, and grateful for the support which the whole country seems to give me. I hope that, although far advanced in life as many of you are, you will, gentlemen, yet live to see better days than those which it is now our misfortune to behold. Thanking you for the support which you in this manner give me, unprepared as I am, I could not with any degree of entertainment detain you longer.

To George B. McClellan
[July 5, 1862]
United States Military Telegraph. Received July 6th 1862. From Washington 9.30 A.M To Maj. Genl McClellan I send you the following dispatch received this morning for your information A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Major Genl. McClellan July 5, 1862.
A thousand thanks for the relief your two despatches of 12 & 1 P.M. yesterday---give me. Be assured the heroism and skill of yourself, officers, and men, are, and forever will be appreciated. If you can hold your present position, we shall `` hive '' the enemy yet. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate Washington, D. C. of the United States. July 5th 1862
I transmit, herewith, for the constitutional action of the Senate, thereon, a treaty negotiated in this city, on the 3d instant, with the Sac and Fox Indians of the Mississippi; Letters from the Secretary of the Interior and Commissioner of Indian Affairs accompany the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
War Department Major Gen. Halleck Washington City, D.C. Corinth, Miss--- July 6th. 1862
My dear Sir: This introduces, Gov. William Sprague, of RhodeIsland. He is now Governor for the third time, and Senator elect of the U.S. I know the object of his visit to you. He has my cheerful consent to go, but not my direction. He wishes to get you and part of your force, one or both, to come here. You already know I should be exceedingly glad of this if, in your judgment, it could be, without endangering positions and operations in the South-West; and I now repeat what I have more than once said by Telegraph, ``Do not come, or send a man, if, in your judgment, it will endanger any point you deem important to hold, or endangers, or delays the Chattanooga expedition.[''] Still, please give my friend, Gov. Sprague, a full and fair hearing. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
United States Military Telegraph, Head-Quarters, Department Washington Genl McClellan July 6th 1862.
I send you the following message received by the secretary of war last evening. Fredericksburg July 5th 62. The Richmond Examiner of yesterday the 4th fourth instant has just been received in Fredericksburg. I am promised the paper Tomorrow morning. A reliable man who had the paper assures me that it censures the confederate Generals severely for failing to capture Genl. McClellan and his army and pronounces McClellans whole movement a masterpiece of strategy. Signed Rufus King Brig Genl. (Signed) A. LINCOLN President U.S.

To Hiram P. Bennet
Mr Bennet. [c. July 7, 1862]
Dear Sir: If I did not endorse upon Judge Pettis' resignation my acceptance of it, it was merely an oversight. I of course intended to do so. Yours very truly Executive Mansion A. LINCOLN July 1862

To John G. Nicolay
Time Received United States Military Telegraph, 10 10 Am War Department, Washington, D.C. Jul 8th 1862.
J. G. Nicolay Esq Fort Monroe Private Secy. Jul 8th 7 30 Am Please borrow and send Bob Two hundred and Eighty (280.) Dollars. I forgot to send it before leaving. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum of Interviews Between Lincoln and Officers of the Army of the Potomac
July 8-9, 1862
Gen. McClellan July 8. 1862 What amount of force have you now? About 80-000---cant vary much---certainly 75-000. What is likely to be your condition as to health in this camp? Better than in any encampment since landing at Fort Monroe. Where is the enemy now? From four to 5. miles from us on all the roads---I think nearly the whole Army. Both Hills---Longstreet, Jackson, Magruder, Huger, If you desired, could you remove the army safely? It would be a delicate & very difficult matter. Cavalry about 5000--- Gen. Summer---July 9. 1862 What is the whole amount of your corps with you now? About 16,000 What is the agregate of your killed, wounded, and missing from the attack on the 26th. ult till now? 1175 In your present encampment what is the present and prospective condition as to health? As good as any part of Eastern Va. Where, & in what condition do you believe the enemy to now be I think they have retired from our front, were much damaged, especially in their best troops in the late actions from superiority of our arms If it were desired to get the Army away, could it be safely effected? I think we could, but I think we give up the cause if we do it. Is the Army secure in it's present position? Perfectly so, in my judgment. Gen. Heintzelman---July 9, 1862 What is the whole amount of your corps now with you? 15-000 for duty What is the agregate of your killed, wounded, and missing from the attack on the 26. ult. till now? Not large. 745. In your present encampment, what is the present and prospective condition as to health? Excellent for health & present health improving. Where, and in what condition do you believe the enemy to now be? Dont think they are in force in our vicinity. If it were desired to get the Army away from here could it be safely effected? Perhaps we could, but think it would be ruinous to the country Is the Army secure in its present position?  I think it is safe. Gen. Keyes---July 9. 1862 What is the whole amount of your corps with you now? About 12-500 What is the agregate of your killed, wounded, and missing, from the attack on the 26th. till now? Less than 500. In your present encampment what is the present & prospective condition as to health? A little improved, but think camp is getting worse Where, and in what condition, do you believe the enemy to now be? Think he has withdrawn & think preparing to go to Washington. If it were desired to get the Army away, could it be safely effected? I think it could if done quickly. Is the Army, in its present position, secure? With help of Gen B. can hold position. Gen Porter  What is the amount of your corps now with you? About 23,000 Fully 20-000 fit, for duty. What is the aggregate of your killed wounded and missing from the attack on the 26th ult. until now? Over 5000. In your present encampment, what is the present and prospective condition as to health? Very good. Where and in what condition do you believe the enemy now to be? Believe he is mainly near Richmond. He feels he dare not attack us here. If it were desired to get the army away from here, could it be safely effected? Impossible---move the Army & ruin the country. Is the Army secure in its present position? Perfectly so. Not only but, we are ready to begin moving forward. General Franklin.  What is the whole amount of your corps now with you? About 15,000. What is the aggregate of your killed, wounded, and missing, from the attack on the 26th ultimo till now? Don't think whole will exceed 3,000 men. In your present encampment what is the present and prospective condition as to health? Not good. Where and in what condition do you believe the enemy now to be? I learn he has withdrawn from our front, and think that is probable. If it were desired to get the army away from here, could it be safely effected? I think we could, and think we better---think Rappahannock true line. Is the army secure in its present position? Unless we can be closer, it is. General Sumner  1175 General Heintzelman	745. General Keyes 	500. Fitz J Porter 	5000 Franklin 	3000 ----- 10420

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: July 9, 1862
I transmit to the Senate for consideration, with a view to ratification a Postal Convention with Costa Rica concluded at San Jose on the 9th. June, last. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 9th. July 1862.

Order Making Henry W. Halleck General-in-Chief
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 11, 1862.
Ordered that Major General Henry W. Halleck be assigned to command the whole land forces of the United States, as General-in-Chief; and that he repair to this Capital so soon as he can with safety to the positions and operations within the Department now under his special charge. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major Gen. Halleck. Washington City, D.C. Corinth July 11. 1862
Gov. Johnson, at Nashville is in trouble and great anxiety about a raid into Kentucky. The Gov. is a true, and a valuable man---indispensable to us in Tennessee. Will you please get in communication with him, and have a full conference with him, before you leave for here? I have telegraphed him on the subject. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Washington City, D.C. Hon. Andrew Johnson. July 11, 1862.
My dear Sir---Yours of yesterday is received. Do you not, my good friend, perceive that what you ask is simply to put you in command in the West. I do not suppose you desire this. You only wish to control in your own localities; but this, you must know, may derange all other parts. Can you, not, and will you not, have a full conference with Gen. Halleck? Telegraph him, and meet him at such place as he and you can agree upon. I telegraph him to meet you and confer fully with you. A. LINCOLN.

Order Extending the Pacific Railroad
July 11, 1862
Whereas, in the judgment of the President, the public safety does require that the Railroad line, called and known as the South West Branch of the Pacific Railroad in the State of Missouri, be repaired, extended and completed, from Rolla to Lebanon, in the direction to Springfield, in the said State, the same being necessary to the successful and economical conduct of the war, and to the maintenance of the authority of the government, in the South West. Therefore, under and in virtue of the act of Congress entitled ``An act to authorise the President of the United States, in certain cases, to take possession of Railroad and Telegraph lines, and for other purposes'' Approved January 31, 1862, it is--- Ordered that the portion of the said Railroad line which reaches from Rolla to Lebanon, be repaired, extended and completed, so as to be made available for the military uses of the Government, as speedily as may be. And in as much as, upon the part of the said line from Rolla to the stream called Little Piney, a considerable portion of the necessary work has already been done, by the Railroad Company, and the road, to this extent, may be completed at comparatively small cost, it is ordered that the said line, from Rolla to and across Little Piney, be first completed, and as soon as possible. The Secretary is charged with the execution of this order. And, to facilitate the speedy execution of the work, he is directed, at his discretion, to take possession and control of the whole or such part of the said Railroad line, and the whole or each part of the rolling stock, offices, shops, buildings and all their appendages and appertenances, as he may judge necessary or convenient for the early completion of the road, from Rolla to Lebanon. Done at the City of Washington, July 11th. 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate, Washington, D.C. of the United States, July 11th 1862.
I transmit to the Senate, herewith, for its constitutional action, thereon, a treaty negotiated at the Kickapoo Agency, on the 28th of June 1862, between Charles B. Keith, Commissioner on the part of the United States and the Chiefs, Head men and delegates of the Kickapoo, Indians, of Kansas. A letter of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, of the 10th. instant, is also transmitted, suggesting amendments to the treaty, for the consideration of the Senate. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
July 11, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives : I recommend that the thanks of Congress be given to the following Officers of the U.S. Navy: Captain James L. Lardner , for meritorious conduct at the battle of Port Royal and distinguished services on the coast of the United States against the enemy; Captain Charles Henry Davis , for distinguished services in conflict with the enemy at Fort Pillow, at Memphis and for successful operations at other points in the waters of the Mississippi River; Commander John A. Dahlgren , for distinguished service in the line of his profession: improvements in Ordnance and zealous and efficient labors in the Ordnance branch of the service; Commander Stephen C. Rowan , for distinguished services in the waters of North Carolina, and particularly in the capture of Newbern, being in chief command of the Naval forces; Commander David D. Porter , for distinguished services in the conception and preparation of the means used for the capture of the Forts below New Orleans, and for highly meritorious conduct in the management of the Mortar Flotilla, during the bombardment of Forts Jackson and St. Philip; Captain Silas H. Stringham , now on the Retired List, for distinguished services in the capture of Forts Hatteras and Clark. Washington, D.C., ABRAHAM LINCOLN 11 July 1862.

To Caleb B. Smith

Sec. of Interior, send the nomination, as within recommended. July 11, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let the within recommendation be carried into effect, if it can be done without inconsistency and collision. A. LINCOLN July 11. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton

Remembering the rule, I would be pleased if the within could be consistently done. A. LINCOLN July 11. 1862.

Appeal to Border State Representatives to Favor Compensated Emancipation
July 12, 1862
Gentlemen. After the adjournment of Congress, now very near, I shall have no opportunity of seeing you for several months. Believing that you of the border-states hold more power for good than any other equal number of members, I feel it a duty which I can not justifiably waive, to make this appeal to you. I intend no reproach or complaint when I assure you that in my opinion, if you all had voted for the resolution in the gradual emancipation message of last March, the war would now be substantially ended. And the plan therein proposed is yet one of the most potent, and swift means of ending it. Let the states which are in rebellion see, definitely and certainly, that, in no event, will the states you represent ever join their proposed Confederacy, and they can not, much longer maintain the contest. But you can not divest them of their hope to ultimately have you with them so long as you show a determination to perpetuate the institution within your own states. Beat them at elections, as you have overwhelmingly done, and, nothing daunted, they still claim you as their own. You and I know what the lever of their power is. Break that lever before their faces, and they can shake you no more forever. Most of you have treated me with kindness and consideration; and I trust you will not now think I improperly touch what is exclusively your own, when, for the sake of the whole country I ask ``Can you, for your states, do better than to take the course I urge? [''] Discarding punctillio and maxims adapted to more manageable times, and looking only to the unprecedentedly stern facts of our case, can you do better in any possible even? You prefer that the constitutional relation of the states to the nation shall be practically restored, without disturbance of the institution; and if this were done, my whole duty, in this respect, under the constitution, and my oath of office, would be performed. But it is not done, and we are trying to accomplish it by war. The incidents of the war can not be avoided. If the war continue long, as it must, if the object be not sooner attained, the institution in your states will be extinguished by mere friction and abrasion---by the mere incidents of the war. It will be gone, and you will have nothing valuable in lieu of it. Much of it's value is gone already. How much better for you, and for your people, to take the step which, at once, shortens the war, and secures substantial compensation for that which is sure to be wholly lost in any other event. How much better to thus save the money which else we sink forever in the war. How much better to do it while we can, lest the war ere long render us pecuniarily unable to do it. How much better for you, as seller, and the nation as buyer, to sell out, and buy out, that without which the war could never have been, than to sink both the thing to be sold, and the price of it, in cutting one another's throats. I do not speak of emancipation at once , but of a decision at once to emancipate gradually . Room in South America for colonization, can be obtained cheaply, and in abundance; and when numbers shall be large enough to be company and encouragement for one another, the freed people will not be so reluctant to go. I am pressed with a difficulty not yet mentioned---one which threatens division among those who, united are none too strong. An instance of it is known to you. Gen. Hunter is an honest man. He was, and I hope, still is, my friend. I valued him none the less for his agreeing with me in the general wish that all men everywhere, could be free. He proclaimed all men free within certain states, and I repudiated the proclamation. He expected more good, and less harm from the measure, than I could believe would follow. Yet in repudiating it, I gave dissatisfaction, if not offence, to many whose support the country can not afford to lose. And this is not the end of it. The pressure, in this direction, is still upon me, and is increasing. By conceding what I now ask, you can relieve me, and much more, can relieve the country, in this important point. Upon these considerations I have again begged your attention to the message of March last. Before leaving the Capital, consider and discuss it among yourselves. You are patriots and statesmen; and, as such, I pray you, consider this proposition; and, at the least, commend it to the consideration of your states and people. As you would perpetuate popular government for the best people in the world, I beseech you that you do in no wise omit this. Our common country is in great peril, demanding the loftiest views, and boldest action to bring it speedy relief. Once relieved, it's form of government is saved to the world; it's beloved history, and cherished memories, are vindicated; and it's happy future fully assured, and rendered inconceivably grand. To you, more than to any others, the previlege is given, to assure that happiness, and swell that grandeur, and to link your own names therewith forever.

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: July 12, 1862
I transmit a report of the Secretary of State upon the subject of the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 9th ultimo, requesting information in regard to the relations between the United States and foreign powers. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, July 12, 1862.

To Rufus King

Will Gen. King please see this gentleman, & do the best for him he can? A. LINCOLN July 12, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, July 12, 1862.
Mr. Senator Hale says you were to appoint Capt. John P. Sherburne, now in Gen. Wadsworth's staff, an Assistant Adjutant General with the rank of Major, if a law should be passed authorizing it. The law is passed; and so let him be appointed. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, July 12. 1862.
Let Thomas L. Crittenden, William Nelson, and Alexander McD. McCook, all now Brigadier generals, be appointed Major Generals of volunteers. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let the appointment, as within requested, for Additional Paymaster, be made. [A. LINCOLN] July 12, 1862.

To Lorenzo Thomas
Adjt. General Thomas. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir--- Washington, July 12, 1862.
Please see Col. Farnsworth, and restore his man, as he will request, if it can be done consistently with the public service. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
`` Cypher '' Gen. J. T. Boyle. Washington, Louisville, Ky July 13, 1862.
Your several despatches received. You should call on Gen. Halleck. Telegraph him at once. I have telegraphed him that you are in trouble. A. LINCOLN

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
`` Cypher '' Gen. J. T. Boyle Washington, D.C., Louisville, Ky. July 13. 1862.
We can not venture to order troops from Gen. Buell. We know not what condition he is in. He may be attacked himself. You must call on Gen. Halleck, who commands, and whose business it is to understand and care for the whole field. If you can not telegraph to him, send a messenger to him. A despatch has this moment come from Halleck at Tuscumbia-Alabama.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major Gen. Halleck. Washington City, D.C. Corinth, Miss. July 13, 1862
They are having a stampede in Kentucky. Please look to it. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan Executive Mansion, My dear Sir--- Washington, July 13 1862.
I am told that over 160-000 men have gone into your Army on the Peninsula. When I was with you the other day we made out 86,500 remaining, leaving 73,500 to be accounted for. I believe 23,500, will cover all the killed, wounded and missing in all your battles and skirmishes, leaving 50-000 who have left otherwise. Not more than 5000 of these have died, leaving 45,000 of your Army still alive, and not with it. I believe half, or two thirds of them are fit for duty to-day. Have you any more perfect knowledge of this than I have? If I am right, and you had these men with you, you could go into Richmond in the next three days. How can they be got to you? and how can they be prevented from getting away in such numbers for the future? A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
July 14, 1862.
Hon. Secretary of the Treasury: Might not Mr. Bouligny be appointed surveyor of the port of New Orleans? If there be no objections, please send nomination. A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Halleck
``Cypher'' Major Gen. Halleck Washington, D.C., Corinth Miss July 14, 1862.
I am very anxious---almost impatient---to have you here. Having due regard to what you leave behind, when can you reach here? A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
War Department, Washington City, July 14, 1862.
Major-General McClellan: General Burnside's force is at Newport News, ready to move, on short notice, one way or the other, when ordered. A. LINCOLN.

Note Concerning John R. Kenly

If the particular arrangement for exchange which Col. Kenly has made can be effected let it be done. A. LINCOLN July 14, 1862.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
July 14, 1862
Fellow citizens of the Senate, and House of Representatives Herewith is the draft of a Bill to compensate any State which may abolish slavery within it's limits, the passage of which, substantially as presented, I respectfully, and earnestly recommend. July 14. 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled, That whenever the President of the United States shall be satisfied that any State shall have lawfully abolished slavery within and throughout such State, either immediately, or gradually, it shall be the duty of the President, assisted by the Secretary of the Treasury, to prepare and deliver to such State, an amount of six per cent interest bearing bonds, of the United States, equal to the aggregate value, at --- dollars per head, of all the slaves within such State, as reported by the census of the year One thousand, eight hundred and sixty---the whole amount for any one State, to be delivered at once, if the abolishment be immediate, or, in equal annual instalments, if it be gradual---interest to begin running on each bond at the time of it's delivery, and not before. And be it further enacted, That if any State, having so received any such bonds, shall at any time afterwards, by law, reintroduce, or tolerate slavery within it's limits, contrary to the act of abolishment, upon which such bonds shall have been received, said bonds, so received by said State, shall at once be null and void in whosesoever hands they may be, and such State shall refund to the United States, all interest which may have been paid on such bonds.

To James W. White, Robert H. McCurdy, and Frederick S. Winston
Messrs. James W. White Executive Mansion, Robert H. McCurdy & Washington, F. S. Winston---Committee. July 14. 1862.
Gentlemen: Your letter conveying to me the invitation of several loyal and patriotic bodies in New-York, to attend a mass meeting in that city, on Tuesday the 15th. Inst. is received. While it would be very agreeable to me to thus meet the friends of the country, I am sure I could add nothing to the purpose, or the wisdom with which they will perform their duty; and the near adjournment of Congress makes it indispensable for me to remain here. Thanking you, and those you represent, for the invitation, and the kind terms in which you have communicated it, I remain Your obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Solomon Foot
Hon. Solomon Foot, Executive Mansion, President pro. tem . of the Senate: Washington, July 15, 1862.
Sir: Please inform the Senate that I shall be obliged if they will postpone the adjournment at least one day beyond the time which I understand to be now fixed for it. Your obt. Servt. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Solomon Foot
Hon. S. Foot Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, July 15. 1862.
I am sorry Senators could not so far trust me as to believe I had some real cause for wishing them to remain. I am considering a bill which came to me only late in the day yesterday, and the subject of which has perplexed Congress for more than half a year.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) I may return it with objections; and if I should, I wish Congress to have the oppertunity of obviating the objections, or of passing it into a law notwithstanding them. That is all. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Galusha A. Grow
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 15, 1862.
Sir: Please inform the House of Representatives that I shall be obliged if they will postpone the adjournment at least one day beyond the time which I understand to be now fixed for it. Your obedient servant, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. HON. GALUSHA A. GROW, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 15. 1862.
This young man---George K. Pomeroy---is the son of one of the best women I ever knew---a widow who has lost all her other children, and has cheerfully given this one to the war, and devotes herself exclusively to nursing our sick and wounded soldiers. I wish to do something for him, and, even, to strain a point for that object. I wish you would see him, and give him a second Lieutenancy in the regular Army, in the first vacancy not already promised. He has already served nearly a year in the volunteers. This shall be your voucher. Yours truly A LINCOLN

Memorandum: Appointment of John West
[c. July 17, 1862]
John West, to be appointed a Collector---6th. old Dist. 5th. new.

Remarks to Committee of Reformed Presbyterian Synod
July 17, 1862
Mr. Lincoln then replied. As to the moral character of the institution of Slavery, and as to its political bearing on the institutions of this or any other Nation, he said there was, between him and the committee, no difference of sentiment. He went on to say: ``Had Slavery no existence among us, and were the question asked shall we adopt such an institution? we should agree as to the reply which should be made. If there be any diversity in our views it is not as to whether we should receive Slavery when free from it, but as to how we may best get rid of it already amongst us. Were an individual asked whether he would wish to have a wen on his neck, he could not hesitate as to the reply; but were it asked whether a man who has such a wen should at once be relieved of it by the application of the surgeon's knife, there might be diversity of opinion, perhaps the man might bleed to death, as the result of such an operation. ``Feeling deeply my responsibility to my country and to that God to whom we all owe allegiance, I assure you I will try to do my best, and so may God help me.''

To the Senate and House of Representatives
July 17, 1862
Fellow-Citizens of the Senate, and House of Representatives, Considering the bill for ``An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason, and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes'' and the Joint Resolution [explanatory of said act,]  as being substantially one, I have approved and signed both. Before I was informed of the passage of the Resolution, I had prepared the draft of a Message, stating objections to the bill becoming a law, a copy of which draft is herewith transmitted. [ABRAHAM LINCOLN] [July 17, 1862.] Fellow citizens of the House of Representatives I herewith return to your honorable body, in which it originated, the bill for an act entitled ``An act to suppress treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes'' together with my objections to it's becoming a law. There is much in the bill to which I perceive no objection. It is wholly prospective; and it touches neither person or property, of any loyal citizen; in which particulars, it is just and proper. The first and second sections provide for the conviction and punishment of persons who shall be guilty of treason, and persons who shall ``incite, set on foot, assist, or engage in any rebellion, or insurrection, against the authority of the United States, or the laws thereof, or shall give aid or comfort thereto, or shall engage in, or give aid and comfort to any such existing rebellion, or insurrection'' By fair construction, persons within these sections are not to be punished without regular trials, in duly constituted courts, under the forms, and all the substantial provisions of law, and of the constitution, applicable to their several cases. To this I perceive no objection; especially as such persons would be within the general pardoning power, and also the special provision for pardon and amnesty, contained in this act. It is also provided, that the slaves of persons convicted under these sections shall be free. I think there is an unfortunate form of expression, rather than a substantial objection, in this. It is startling to say that congress can free a slave within a state; and yet if it were said the ownership of the slave had first been transferred to the nation, and that congress had then liberated, him, the difficulty would at once vanish. And this is the real case. The traitor against the general government forfets his slave, at least as justly as he does any other property; and he forfeits both to the government against which he offends. The government, so far as there can be ownership, thus owns the the [ sic ] forfeited slaves; and the question for Congress, in regard to them is, ``Shall they be made free, or be sold to new masters?'' I perceive no objection to Congress deciding in advance that they shall be free. To the high honor of Kentucky, as I am informed, she has been the owner of some slaves by escheat , and that she sold none, but liberated all. I hope the same is true of some other states. Indeed, I do not believe it would be physically possible, for the General government, to return persons, so circumstanced, to actual slavery. I believe there would be physical resistance to it, which could neither be turned aside by argument, nor driven away by force. In this view I have no objection to this feature of the bill. Another matter involved in these two sections, and running through other parts of the act, will be noticed hereafter. I perceive no objection to the third and fourth sections. So far as I wish to notice the fifth, and sixth sections, they may be considered together.  That the enforcement of these sections would do no injustice to the persons embraced within them, is clear. That those who make a causeless war should be compelled to pay the cost of it, is too obviously just, to be called in question. To give governmental protection to the property of persons who have abandoned it, and gone on a crusade to overthrow that same government, is absurd, if considered in the mere light of justice. The severest justice may not always be the best policy. The principle of seizing, and appropriating the property of the persons embraced within these sections is certainly not very objectionable; but a justly discriminating application of it, would be very difficult, and, to a great extent, impossible. And would it not be wise to place a power of remission somewhere, so that these persons may know they have something to lose by persisting, and something to save by desisting?  I am not sure whether such power of remission is or is not within section Thirteen. Without any special act of congress, I think our military commanders, when, in military phrase, ``they are within the enemies country'' should in an orderly manner, seize and use whatever of real or personal property may be necessary or convenient for their commands; at the same time, preserving, in some way, the evidence of what they do. What I have said in regard to slaves, while commenting on the first and second sections, is applicable to the ninth, with the difference, that no provision is made in the whole act for determining whether a particular individual slave does or does not fall within the classes defined in that section. He is to be free upon certain conditions; but whether those conditions do, or do not pertain to him, no mode of ascertaining is provided. This could be easily supplied. To the tenth section, I make no objection. The oath therein required seems to be proper; and the remainder of the section is substantially identical with an already existing law. The eleventh section simply assumes to confer discretionary powers upon the executive. Without this law I have no hesitation to go as far in the direction indicated, as I may at any time deem expedient. And I am ready to say now I think it is proper for our military commanders to employ, as laborers, as many persons of African de[s]cent, as can be used to advantage. The twelfth and thirteenth sections are something better than objectionable; and the fourteenth is entirely proper if all other parts of the act shall stand. That to which I chiefly object, pervades most parts of the act, but more distinctly appears in the first, second, seventh and eighth sections. It is the sum of those provisions which results in the divesting of title forever. For the causes of treason, and the ingredients of treason, not amounting to the full crime, it declares forfeiture, extending beyond the lives of the guilty parties; whereas the Constitution of the United States declares that ``no attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture, except during the life of the person attainted.'' True, there is to be no formal attainder in this case; still I think the greater punishment can not be constitutionally inflicted, in a different form, for the same offence. With great respect, I am constrained to say I think this feature of the act is unconstitutional. It would not be difficult to modify it. I may remark that this provision of the constitution, put in language borrowed from Great Brittain, applies only in this country, as I understand, to real, or landed estate. Again, this act, by proceedings in rem forfeits property, for the ingredients of treason, without a conviction of the supposed criminal, or a personal hearing given him in any proceeding. That we may not touch property lying within our reach, because we can not give personal notice to an owner who is absent endeavoring to destroy the govern[ment,] is certainly not very satisfactory; still the owner may not be thus engaged, and I think a reasonable time should be provided for such parties to appear and have personal hearings. Similar provisions are not uncommon in connection with proceedings in rem . For the reasons stated I return the bill to the House in which it originated.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
July 17, 1862
Fellow citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives: I have inadvertently omitted so long to inform you that in March last Mr. Cornelius Vanderbilt, of New York, gratuitously presented to the United States the ocean steamer ``Vanderbilt,'' by many esteemed the finest merchant ship in the world. She has ever since been, and still is, doing valuable service to the government. For the patriotic act in making this magnificent and valuable present to the country, I recommend that some suitable acknowledgement be made. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. July 17, 1862.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 18, 1862.
My dear Sir: Mr. Senator Doolittle informs me that the Wisconsin delegation have unanimously recommended persons for assessors and collectors throughout their State, and that the paper showing this is filed with you. If so, I am in favor of adopting their ``slate'' at once, and so disposing of one State. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum: Michigan Appointments
[c. July 18, 1862]
Note , Mr. Granger did not sign!

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 18, 1862
I understand the young man mentioned within was forced [to] decline this appointment by reason of some injury or disease about the foot which has now recovered; and that he had the promise of a re-appointment on recovery, from Gen. Cameron. Under these circumstances, I shall be glad if a vacancy of 2nd. Lieutenancy can be found for him, especially as it is said he has been studying and preparing in reliance upon such promise. A. LINCOLN July 18. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 18, 1862
I would desire that in any arrangement for a general exchange of prisoners, (now about being made, as I understand) loyal men now prisoners in our hands should not be indiscriminately, turned back into the power of the enemy; and, if any agent shall be deemed necessary, to make such discrimination and apply it, I doubt not Mr. Rodgers would be a suitable person for such Agency. Will the Secretary of War please consider it? July 18, 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Respectfully submitted to the Attorney General for his opinion whether I can , and ought to remit as requested. July 19, 1862 A. LINCOLN

To William H. Fry
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, July 19, 1862
A pressure of important business has prevented my earlier acknowledgement of the receipt of your favor of the 9th of this month. You are in error if you suppose any important portion of my correspondence escapes my notice. Every thing requiring my action or attention is brought to my notice. No letter of yours, which has been received here, has been neglected or left unacknowledged. Your Obt. Servt. A LINCOLN W. H. Fry Esq

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Sec. of War please respond to this? Let Gen. Boyle raise one year's men, unless there be some potent objection. July 19, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the service needs another Commissary of Subsistence, let Edwin Henry, named within, be appointed. A. LINCOLN July 19, 1862.

To George B. McClellan
``Cypher'' War Department Washington City, D.C. Major Gen. McClellan July 21 1862
This is Monday. I hope to be able to tell you on Thursday, what is to be done with Burnside. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Subjects of Foreign Powers
July 21, 1862
Representations have been made to the President by the Ministers of various foreign powers in amity with the United States, that subjects of such powers have, during the present insurrection, been obliged or required by military authorities to take an oath of general or qualified allegiance to this Government. It is the duty of all aliens residing in the United States to submit to and obey the laws, and respect the authority of the Government. For any proceeding or conduct inconsistent with this obligation, and subversive of that authority, they may rightfully be subjected to military restraints when this may be necessary. But they cannot be required to take an oath of allegiance to this Government, because it conflicts with the duty they owe to their own sovereigns. All such obligations heretofore taken are, therefore, remitted and annulled. Military Commanders will abstain from imposing similar obligations in future, and will, in lieu thereof, adopt such other restraints of the character indicated as they shall find necessary, convenient, and effectual, for the public safety. It is further directed that whenever any order shall be made affecting the personal liberty of an alien, reports of the same, and of the causes thereof, shall be made to the War Department, for the consideration of the Department of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 21, 1862.
I do not personally know the writer of this; but Senator Harlan thinks the service might be advanced, by sending him into Penn, to assist in raising more forces. Sec. of War, please see Senator Harlan, on the subject. A. LINCOLN July 21, 1862.

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Sec. of Navy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, July 21, 1862.
I am induced to think it probable that Mr. William R. Hopkins, lately dismissed from the place of Assistant Professor, in the Naval School, is an entirely loyal man. I shall be glad if you will investigate the case so as to be fully satisfied yourself; and if satisfied that he is loyal, restore him to his place. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase

You see by the within what papers the Attorney General wants to enable him to give an opinion in the case. A. LINCOLN July 22, 1862.

Emancipation Proclamation---First Draft
[July 22, 1862]
In pursuance of the sixth section  of the act of congress entitled ``An act to suppress insurrection and to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate property of rebels, and for other purposes'' Approved July 17. 1862, and which act, and the Joint Resolution explanatory thereof, are herewith published, I, ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States, do hereby proclaim to, and warn all persons within the contemplation of said sixth section to cease participating in, aiding, countenancing, or abetting the existing rebellion, or any rebellion against the government of the United States, and to return to their proper allegiance to the United States, on pain of the forfeitures and seizures, as within and by said sixth section provided. And I hereby make known that it is my purpose, upon the next meeting of congress, to again recommend the adoption of a practical measure for tendering pecuniary aid to the free choice or rejection, of any and all States which may then be recognizing and practically sustaining the authority of the United States, and which may then have voluntarily adopted, or thereafter may voluntarily adopt, gradual abolishment of slavery within such State or States---that the object is to practically restore, thenceforward to be maintain[ed], the constitutional relation between the general government, and each, and all the states, wherein that relation is now suspended, or disturbed; and that, for this object, the war, as it has been, will be, prossecuted. And, as a fit and necessary military measure for effecting this object, I, as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, do order and declare that on the first day of January in the year of Our Lord one thousand, eight hundred and sixtythree, all persons held as slaves within any state or states, wherein the constitutional authority of the United States shall not then be practically recognized, submitted to, and maintained, shall then, thenceforward, and forever, be free. Emancipation Proclamation as first sketched and shown to the Cabinet in July 1862. 

Memorandum on Recruiting Negroes
[July 22, 1862?]
To recruiting free negroes, no objection. To recruiting slaves of disloyal owners, no objection. To recruiting slaves of loyal owners, with their consent , no objection. To recruiting slaves of loyal owners without consent, objection, unless the necessity is urgent . To conducting offensively, while recruiting, and to carrying away slaves not suitable for recruits, objection.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Secretary of War. Washington, July 22, 1862.
Sir---I think it will be better to do nothing now which can be construed into a demand for troops in addition to the three hundred thousand for which we have recently called. We do not need more, nor, indeed, so many, if we could have the smaller number very soon. It is a very important consideration, too, that one recruit into an old regiment is nearly or quite equal in value to two in a new one. We can scarcely afford to forego any plan within our power, which may facilitate the filling of the old regiments with recruits. If, on consideration, you are of opinion that this object can be advanced, by causing the Militia of the several states to be enrolled, and by drafts therefrom, you are at liberty to take the proper steps, and do so, provided that any number of recruits so obtained from any state within the next three months, shall, if practicable, be an abatement, of the quota of volunteers from such state under the recent call. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward
July 23, 1862
Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of State, with the remark that I have no objection to the appointment of Mr. Brainerd, if the Secretary has none. A. LINCOLN July 23. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir--- Washington, July 23. 1862.
It is a question whether we shall accept the troops under the call of Gov. Curtin for 9 months men & 12 months men. I understand you say it rests with me under the law. Perhaps it does; but I do not wish to decide it without your concurrence. What say you? If we do not take them after what has happened, we shall fail perhaps to get any on other terms from Pennsylvania. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James Dixon
Executive Mansion, Hon. Senator Dixon Washington, July 24, 1862.
My dear Sir. The bearer of this, Mr. Bronson Murray, now resident in the 4th. District of Connecticut, wishes to be Collector for that District. He is my acquaintance and friend, of some years standing, whom I would like to oblige; but I should not like to appoint him against the wish of yourself & other Union friends there. Please give the case such attention as you reasonably can & write me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William A. Hammond

Surgeon General will send Mr. Merwin wherever he may think the public service may require. A. LINCOLN July 24, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 24, 1862
I understand it is desired that Joseph M. Bell be appointed a 2nd Lieut. in the Army, in order to his being Assistant Adjutant General on the Staff of Gen. B.S. Roberts. If consistent with the rules, let it be done. A. LINCOLN. July 24, 1862.

Order for Observance of Death of Martin Van Buren
Washington 25th July. 1862
The President, with deep regret, announces to the people of the United States the decease at Kinderhook, New York, on the 24th instant, of his honored predecessor, Martin Van Buren. This event will occasion mourning in the nation for the loss of a citizen and a public servant whose memory will be gratefully cherished. Although it has occurred at a time when his country is afflicted with division and civil war, the grief of his patriotic friends will measurably be assuaged by the consciousness that, while suffering with disease and seeing his end approaching, his prayers were for the restoration of the authority of the government of which he had been the head, and for peace and good will among his fellow citizens. As a mark of respect for his memory, it is ordered that the Executive Mansion and the several Executive Departments, excepting those of War and the Navy, be immediately placed in mourning, and all business be suspended during to morrow. It is further ordered that the War and Navy Departments cause suitable military and naval honors to be paid on this occasion to the memory of the illustrious dead. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Proclamation of the Act to Suppress Insurrection
July 25, 1862
By the President of the United States of America, A proclamation In pursuance of the sixth section of the act of Congress entitled ``An act to suppress insurrection, and to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate property of rebels, and for other purposes,'' Approved July 17, 1862; and which act, and the Joint Resolution explanatory, thereof, are herewith published; I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby proclaim to, and warn all persons within the contemplation of said sixth section to cease participating in, aiding, countenancing, or abetting the existing rebellion, or any rebellion, against the government of the United States, and to return to their proper allegiance to the United States, on pain of the forfeitures and seizures, as within, and by said sixth section provided. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this twenty-fifth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty seventh. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN. WILLIAM. H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 25, 1862
I know there is no vacancy of a pay-mastership in the regular army. If there be now or soon will be for volunteers have Mr. Huey named within because Hon. Mr. Hickman seldom asks for anything and because Mr. Huey is abundantly vouched as a good man.

To Lorenzo Thomas

Col. Morrison is above a false pretence, & saying this I leave it to the Adjt. Genl. to say whether he shall have leave of absence. July 25, 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Reverdy Johnson
PRIVATE Executive Mansion, Hon Reverdy Johnson Washington, July 26, 1862.
My Dear Sir. Yours of the 16th. by the hand of Governor Shepley is received. It seems the Union feeling in Louisiana is being crushed out by the course of General Phelps. Please pardon me for believing that is a false pretense. The people of Louisiana---all intelligent people every where---know full well, that I never had a wish to touch the foundations of their society, or any right of theirs. With perfect knowledge of this, they forced a necessity upon me to send armies among them, and it is their own fault, not mine, that they are annoyed by the presence of General Phelps. They also know the remedy---know how to be cured of General Phelps. Remove the necessity of his presence. And might it not be well for them to consider whether they have not already had time enough to do this? If they can conceive of anything worse than General Phelps, within my power, would they not better be looking out for it? They very well know the way to avert all this is simply to take their place in the Union upon the old terms. If they will not do this, should they not receive harder blows rather than lighter ones? You are ready to say I apply to friends what is due only to enemies . I distrust the wisdom if not the sincerity of friends, who would hold my hands while my enemies stab me. This appeal of professed friends has paralyzed me more in this struggle than any other one thing. You remember telling me the day after the Baltimore mob in April 1861, that it would crush all Union feeling in Maryland for me to attempt bringing troops over Maryland soil to Washington. I brought the troops notwithstanding, and yet there was Union feeling enough left to elect a Legislature the next autumn which in turn elected a very excellent Union U. S. Senator! I am a patient man---always willing to forgive on the Christian terms of repentance; and also to give ample time for repentance. Still I must save this government if possible. What I cannot do, of course I will not do; but it may as well be understood, once for all, that I shall not surrender this game leaving any available card unplayed. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Respectfully submitted to the Sec. of War, with the request that he respond, particularly as to Gen. Pope's order. July 26. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Cuthbert Bullitt
PRIVATE Cuthbert Bullitt Esq Washington D.C. New Orleans La. July 28. 1862
Sir: The copy of a letter addressed to yourself by Mr. Thomas J. Durant, has been shown to me. The writer appears to be an able, a dispassionate, and an entirely sincere man. The first part of the letter is devoted to an effort to show that the Secession Ordinance of Louisiana was adopted against the will of a majority of the people. This is probably true; and in that fact may be found some instruction. Why did they allow the Ordinance to go into effect? Why did they not assert themselves? Why stand passive and allow themselves to be trodden down by a minority? Why did they not hold popular meetings, and have a convention of their own, to express and enforce the true sentiment of the state? If preorganization was against them then , why not do this now , that the United States Army is present to protect them? The paralysis ---the dead palsy---of the government in this whole struggle is, that this class of men will do nothing for the government, nothing for themselves, except demanding that the government shall not strike its open enemies, lest they be struck by accident! Mr. Durant complains that in various ways the relation of master and slave is disturbed by the presence of our Army; and he considers it particularly vexatious that this, in part, is done under cover of an act of Congress, while constitutional guaranties are suspended on the plea of military necessity. The truth is, that what is done, and omitted, about slaves, is done and omitted on the same military necessity. It is a military necessity to have men and money; and we can get neither, in sufficient numbers, or amounts, if we keep from, or drive from, our lines, slaves coming to them. Mr. Durant cannot be ignorant of the pressure in this direction; nor of my efforts to hold it within bounds till he, and such as he shall have time to help themselves. I am not posted to speak understandingly on all the police regulations of which Mr. Durant complains. If experience shows any one of them to be wrong, let them be set right. I think I can perceive, in the freedom of trade, which Mr. Durant urges, that he would relieve both friends and enemies from the pressure of the blockade. By this he would serve the enemy more effectively than the enemy is able to serve himself. I do not say or believe that to serve the enemy is the purpose of Mr. Durant; or that he is conscious of any purpose, other than national and patriotic ones. Still, if there were a class of men who, having no choice of sides in the contest, were anxious only to have quiet and comfort for themselves while it rages, and to fall in with the victorious side at the end of it, without loss to themselves, their advice as to the mode of conducting the contest would be precisely such as his is. He speaks of no duty---apparently thinks of none---resting upon Union men. He even thinks it injurious to the Union cause that they should be restrained in trade and passage without taking sides. They are to touch neither a sail nor a pump, but to be merely passengers,---dead-heads at that---to be carried snug and dry, throughout the storm, and safely landed right side up. Nay, more; even a mutineer is to go untouched lest these sacred passengers receive an accidental wound. Of course the rebellion will never be suppressed in Louisiana, if the professed Union men there will neither help to do it, nor permit the government to do it without their help. Now, I think the true remedy is very different from what is suggested by Mr. Durant. It does not lie in rounding the rough angles of the war, but in removing the necessity for the war. The people of Louisiana who wish protection to person and property, have but to reach forth their hands and take it. Let them, in good faith, reinaugurate the national authority, and set up a State Government conforming thereto under the constitution. They know how to do it, and can have the protection of the Army while doing it. The Army will be withdrawn so soon as such State government can dispense with its presence; and the people of the State can then upon the old Constitutional terms, govern themselves to their own liking. This is very simple and easy. If they will not do this, if they prefer to hazard all for the sake of destroying the government, it is for them to consider whether it is probable I will surrender the government to save them from losing all. If they decline what I suggest, you scarcely need to ask what I will do. What would you do in my position? Would you drop the war where it is? Or, would you prosecute it in future, with elder-stalk squirts, charged with rose water? Would you deal lighter blows rather than heavier  ones? Would you give up the contest, leaving any available means unapplied. I am in no boastful mood. I shall not do more than I can, and I shall do all I can to save the government, which is my sworn duty as well as my personal inclination. I shall do nothing in malice. What I deal with is too vast for malicious dealing. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Appointment of Charles E. Mix
Executive Mansion Washington July 28th. 1862
I hereby appoint Charles E. Mix, Chief Clerk of the Office of Indian Affairs, to be Acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs, during the absence of Commissioner Dole from the Seat of Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Hamilton R. Gamble
July 28, 1862
You ask four Regiments for Gen. Schofield, and he asks the same of the Sec. of War. Please raise them for me, as I have them not, nor can have, till some governor gives them to me.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please pub Bob in the way to find where John Reed, of Co. C, 11 Mass. may be found. A. LINCOLN July 28. 1862.

To Union Governors
Washington, D.C., Gov. of ``all Loyal States''  July 28, 1862.
It would be of great service here for us to know, as fully as you can tell, what progress is made, and making, in recruiting for old regiments in your State. Also, about what day the first new regiment can move from you---what, the second, what the third, and so on. This information is important to us in making calculations. Please give it as promptly, and accurately as you can. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Edward Keinle, named within, is hereby pardoned, for so much of his sentence as remains unexecuted. A. LINCOLN July 29, 1862

Memorandum:Appointment of Robert T. Knight
July 29, 1862
To-day, Mrs. Robert T. Knight, calls and asks that her husband be Assessor of this District, in which he resides. She says good papers are on file with Sec. of Treasury. I am to give respectful consideration to the case. A. LINCOLN July 29, 1862.

Recommendation of Hawkins Taylor
Washington July 29, 1862
I have some acquaintance with Mr. Taylor and think his appointment would be a good one. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir--- Washington, July 29. 1862.
Gen. John Cook tells me he has never had an Assistant Quarter-Master, and he wants Joseph B. Tully, now First Lieut. in the N.Y. 69th. appointed to that position. Unless there be some insurmountable obstacle, let him be appointed. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the Secretary of War approves, so do I. A LINCOLN July 29 1862

To John F. Lee
Judge Advocate Executive Mansion, Of the Army. Washington July 30. 1862.
Sir. Please examine once more, the case of Lieutenant Colonel Francis B O'Keefe, and tell me what I, as President, can lawfully do, if anything, to relieve him from the unpleasant attitude he is in. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, July 30, 1862.
These gentlemen desire some order to facilitate recruiting in the City of New-York. I think you may safely give them such as they desire, making it subject to the approval of the Governor of the State. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 30, 1862
We want the proposed Regiment if we can get it, and, with the concurrence of the Sec. of War, and the Gov. of New-York, and not without, let Capt. Bradley raise the regiment. July 30. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To August Belmont
July 31, 1862.
Dear Sir: You send to Mr. W[eed] an extract from a letter written at New Orleans the 9th instant, which is shown to me. You do not give the writer's name; but plainly he is a man of ability, and probably of some note. He says: ``The time has arrived when Mr. Lincoln must take a decisive course. Trying to please everybody, he will satisfy nobody. A vacillating policy in matters of importance is the very worst. Now is the time, if ever, for honest men who love their country to rally to its support. Why will not the North say officially that it wishes for the restoration of the Union as it was?'' And so, it seems, this is the point on which the writer thinks I have no policy. Why will he not read and understand what I have said? The substance of the very declaration he desires is in the inaugural, in each of the two regular messages to Congress, and in many, if not all, the minor documents issued by the Executive since the inauguration. Broken eggs cannot be mended; but Louisiana has nothing to do now but to take her place in the Union as it was, barring the already broken eggs. The sooner she does so, the smaller will be the amount of that which will be past mending. This government cannot much longer play a game in which it stakes all, and its enemies stake nothing. Those enemies must understand that they cannot experiment for ten years trying to destroy the government, and if they fail still come back into the Union unhurt. If they expect in any contingency to ever have the Union as it was, I join with the writer in saying, ``Now is the time.'' How much better it would have been for the writer to have gone at this, under the protection of the army at New Orleans, than to have sat down in a closet writing complaining letters northward! Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of James Farrington

Col. R. W. Thompson, recommends James Farrington of Terre-Haute; for Collector of that District. July 31. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let this appointment be made if it consistently can. July 31. 1862. A LINCOLN

To Joseph A. Wright
Hon Joseph A. Wright: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, July 31, 1862.
Our mutual friends, R. W. Thompson, and John P.Usher, assure me that they believe you, more certainly than any other man, can carry the Terre-Haute District for the Union cause. Please try. The effort shall not go unappreciated, so far as I am concerned. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

James A. Wise is hereby pardoned of all the imprisonment except as to the first ten days. A. LINCOLN Aug. 1. 1862.

To Mary L. Booth
Executive Mansion, Madam Washington, August 1, 1862.
Allow me to return my cordial thanks for your kindness in sending me a copy of your translation of the Comte de Gasparin's ``America before Europe.'' I shall read it with pleasure and with gratitude. I am very truly Your Obt. Servt. Mary L. Booth ABRAHAM LINCOLN &c. &c.

To Andrew H. Foote
Sir. Executive Mansion 1 August 1862.
I have the pleasure to transmit, herewith, a certified copy of a Joint Resolution of Congress, approved July 16th. 1862, tendering its thanks to you for your eminent services and gallantry at Fort Henry, Fort Donelson, and Island Number Ten, while in command of the Naval forces of the United States. I am, respectfully Your Obdt. Servt. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Rear Admiral Andrew H. Foote, U. S. Navy New Haven, Conn:

To Sydney H. Gay
S. H. Gay--- of Tribune--- Executive Mansion, New-York. Washington, August 1. 1862
Your letter, and inclosure, received. Please come and see me at once; and, if possible, bring your correspondent with you. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
August 2, 1862
I have but slight personal recollection of Mr. Hall; but the writers of the within letters would not say what they do not know. On their representation, I should be glad if an appointment could be consistently given him. A. LINCOLN Aug. 2. 1862.

To Henry W. Halleck
August 2, 1862
Gen. Halleck, please see the bearer, Mr. Swett, who will tell you truth only about Wm. W. Orme, whom I also know, to be one of the most active, competent, and best men in the world. Aug. 2. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 2, 1862
If the Secretary of War shall write his name below this, Gen. Dix, commanding at Fort-Monroe, is authorized, in his discretion, to allow Gov. Rencher & family to go to North-Carolina. Aug. 2. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher
Executive Mansion August 2. 1862
Let the appointment be made as recommended by the Acting Secretary of the Interior. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
G. Welles Executive Mansion My dear Sir Aug. 2, 1862
Allow me to request that you will afford all facilities not inconsistent with public interests to Captain Diller and Dr. Wetherell  for some chemical experiments which they desire to make privately under my direction. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Agenor-Etienne de Gasparin
Executive Mansion Washington August 4. 1862
Dear Sir: Your very acceptable letter dated Orbe Canton de Vaud, Switzerland 18th of July 1862 is received. The moral effect was the worst of the affair before Richmond; and that has run its course downward; we are now at a stand, and shall soon be rising again, as we hope. I believe it is true that in men and material, the enemy suffered more than we, in that series of conflicts; while it is certain he is less able to bear it. With us every soldier is a man of character and must be treated with more consideration than is customary in Europe. Hence our great army for slighter causes than could have prevailed there has dwindled rapidly, bringing the necessity for a new call, earlier than was anticipated. We shall easily obtain the new levy, however. Be not alarmed if you shall learn that we shall have resorted to a draft for part of this. It seems strange, even to me, but it is true, that the Government is now pressed to this course by a popular demand. Thousands who wish not to personally enter the service are nevertheless anxious to pay and send substitutes, provided they can have assurance that unwilling persons similarly situated will be compelled to do like wise. Besides this, volunteers mostly choose to enter newly forming regiments, while drafted men can be sent to fill up the old ones, wherein, man for man, they are quite doubly as valuable. You ask ``why is it that the North with her great armies, so often is found, with inferiority of numbers, face to face with the armies of the South?'' While I painfully know the fact, a military man, which I am not, would better answer the question. The fact I know, has not been overlooked; and I suppose the cause of its continuance lies mainly in the other facts that the enemy holds the interior, and we the exterior lines; and that we operate where the people convey information to the enemy, while he operates where they convey none to us. I have received the volume and letter which you did me the honor of addressing to me, and for which please accept my sincere thanks. You are much admired in America for the ability of your writings, and much loved for your generosity to us, and your devotion to liberal principles generally. You are quite right, as to the importance to us, for its bearing upon Europe, that we should achieve military successes; and the same is true for us at home as well as abroad. Yet it seems unreasonable that a series of successes, extending through half-a-year. and clearing more than a hundred thousand square miles of country, should help us so little, while a single half-defeat should hurt us so much. But let us be patient. I am very happy to know that my course has not conflicted with your judgement, of propriety and policy. I can only say that I have acted upon my best convictions without selfishness or malice, and that by the help of God, I shall continue to do so. Please be assured of my highest respect and esteem.

Remarks to Deputation of Western Gentlemen
August 4, 1862
A deputation of Western gentlemen waited upon the President this morning to offer two colored regiments from the State of Indiana. Two members of Congress were of the party. The President received them courteously, but stated to them that he was not prepared to go the length of enlisting negroes as soldiers. He would employ all colored men offered as laborers, but would not promise to make soldiers of them. The deputation came away satisfied that it is the determination of the Government not to arm negroes unless some new and more pressing emergency arises. The President argued that the nation could not afford to lose Kentucky at this crisis, and gave it as his opinion that to arm the negroes would turn 50,000 bayonets from the loyal Border States against us that were for us. Upon the policy of using negroes as laborers, the confiscation of Rebel property, and the feeding the National troops upon the granaries of the enemy, the President said there was no division of sentiment. He did not explain, however, why it is that the Army of the Potomac and the Army of Virginia carry out this policy so differently. The President promised that the war should be prosecuted with all the rigor he could command, but he could not promise to arm slaves or to attempt slave insurrections in the Rebel States. The recent enactments of Congress on emancipation and confiscation he expects to carry out.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir--- Washington, Aug. 4. 1862.
Please see these Texas gentlemen, and talk with them. They think if we could send 2500 or 3000 arms, in a vessel, to the vicinity of the Rio. Grande, that they can find the men there who will re-inaugerate the National Authority on the Rio Grande first, and probably on the Nuesces also. Perhaps Gen. Halleck's opinion should should [ sic ] be asked. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Lorenzo Thomas

On what ground was Dr. Stipp suspended? A. LINCOLN Aug. 4. 1862

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion. Whom it may concern: Aug. 4, 1862
Edward Hall, a Texas gentleman, is a very competent, faithful, and genteel man. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Address to Union Meeting at Washington
August 6, 1862
FELLOW-CITIZENS: I believe there is no precedent for my appearing before you on this occasion, [applause] but it is also true that there is no precedent for your being here yourselves, [applause and laughter;] and I offer, in justification of myself and of you, that, upon examination, I have found nothing in the Constitution against. [Renewed applause.] I, however, have an impression that there are younger gentlemen who will entertain you better, [voices---``No, no; none can do better than yourself. Go on!''] and better address your understanding, than I will or could, and therefore, I propose but to detain you a moment longer. [Cries---``Go on! Tar and feather the rebels!''] I am very little inclined on any occasion to say anything unless I hope to produce some good by it. [A voice---``You do that; go on.] The only thing I think of just now not likely to be better said by some one else, is a matter in which we have heard some other persons blamed for what I did myself . [Voices---``What is it?] There has been a very wide-spread attempt to have a quarrel between Gen. McClellan and the Secretary of War. Now, I occupy a position that enables me to observe, at least, these two gentlemen are not nearly so deep in the quarrel as some pretending to be their friends . [Cries of ``Good.''] Gen. McClellan's attitude is such that, in the very selfishness of his nature, he cannot but wish to be successful, and I hope he will---and the Secretary of War is in precisely the same situation. If the military commanders in the field cannot be successful, not only the Secretary of War, but myself for the time being the master of them both, cannot be but failures. [Laughter and applause.] I know Gen. McClellan wishes to be successful, and I know he does not wish it any more than the Secretary of War for him, and both of them together no more than I wish it. [Applause and cries of ``Good.''] Sometimes we have a dispute about how many men Gen. McClellan has had, and those who would disparage him say that he has had a very large number, and those who would disparage the Secretary of War insist that Gen. McClellan has had a very small number. The basis for this is, there is always a wide difference, and on this occasion, perhaps, a wider one between the grand total on McClellan's rolls and the men actually fit for duty ; and those who would disparage him talk of the grand total on paper, and those who would disparage the Secretary of War talk of those at present fit for duty. Gen. McClellan has sometimes asked for things that the Secretary of War did not give him . Gen. McClellan is not to blame for asking what he wanted and needed, and the Secretary of War is not to blame for not giving when he had none to give . [Applause, laughter, and cries of ``Good, good.''] And I say here, as far as I know, the Secretary of War has withheld no one thing at any time in my power to give him . [Wild applause, and a voice---``Give him enough now!''] I have no accusation against him. I believe he is a brave and able man , [applause,] and I stand here, as justice requires me to do, to take upon myself what has been charged on the Secretary of War, as withholding from him . I have talked longer than I expected to do, [cries of ``No, no---go on,''] and now I avail myself of my privilege of saying no more.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir--- Washington, Aug. 6. 1862.
After the late battles before Richmond, we promoted Gen. Israel B. Richardson to be a Major General. He wishes that Gen. French may be assigned to his old Division; and that he may be assigned to a new Division from Michigan, which he thinks he can bring forward faster than any one else, & which I think is probable. You and Gen. Halleck must decide these things. Yours &c A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, August 7, 1862.
My dear Sir: I have signed and herewith [return] the papers sent yesterday for Vermont, New Hampshire, and Michigan, except in the three cases of departure from the congressional recommendations, which, with the brief, I hold to examine a little. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Cary H. Fry
August 7, 1862
I remember nothing of this case; but I desire that it shall be investigated, and that Capt. Bourry, be paid for the services he actually performed, if any. The government can not afford to accept services, and refuse payment for them. A. LINCOLN. Aug. 7. 1862.

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion Major Gen. Halleck, Washington, Aug. 7, 1862.
Please see Gen. Casey. He considers himself aggrieved, and appeals to me for justice. But I do not know what would be justice in the case and have not the time to inquire. A. LINCOLN Please hear him.

To Amos A. Lawrence
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, August 7, 1862.
Allow me to thank you sincerely for your kind letter of the 5th of August. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN Hon Amos A. Lawrence &c &c

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 7, 1862
There seems to be a peculiar reason why Mr. Busteed should enter the Military services; & if the Sec. of War concurs, he may be appointed a Brigadier General; and with the concurrence of the Gov. of New-York, may engage in raising troops there. Aug. 7. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 8, 1862.
Sir: I have signed the paper forming the districts for Rhode Island and Connecticut, and herewith return it. Also two of the commissions for Connecticut; the others are fiercely contested. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To John F. Lee
August 8. 1862.
The opinion of the Judge Advocate is approved. I consent that Colonel O'Keefe be reappointed into the Volunteer service of the United States if the Governor of New York so inclines. A. LINCOLN

To John F. Lee
August 8, 1862
Judge Advocate please examine this case. The evidence appears slight; and the finding, it seems to me, is equivalent to saying Lieutenant Rowly left ``with permission of the Battallion commander, Captain A. F Bond 2nd U.S. Infantry'' Aug. 8. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please respond to this. A. LINCOLN Aug. 8. 1862.

To Queen Victoria
August 8, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, To Her Majesty Victoria, Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, &c., &c., &c., Sendeth Greeting. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty addressed to me on the fourth day of July last, notifying the pleasing intelligence of the marriage on the first of that month, of Your Majesty's dearly beloved daughter, Her Royal Highness, the Princess Alice Maud Mary with His Grand Ducal Highness, the Prince Frederick William Lewis Charles, eldest son of His Grand Ducal Highness the Prince Charles William Lewis of Hesse, and Nephew of His Royal Highness the Grand Duke of Hesse. Feeling a lively interest in all that concerns Your Majesty's August Family, I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event and offer to Your Majesty my sincere congratulations upon the occasion, with the assurance that the newly married Prince and Princess have my best wishes for their prosperity and happiness: And so I recommend your Majesty and Your Majesty's Royal Family to the protection of the Almighty. Written at Washington, the 8th. day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To John M. Clay
Mr. John M. Clay. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, August 9, 1862.
The snuff-box you sent, with the accompanying note, was received yesterday. Thanks for this memento of your great and patriotic father. Thanks also for the assurance that, in these days of dereliction, you remain true to his principles. In the concurrent sentiment of your venerable mother, so long the partner of his bosom and his honors, and lingering now, where he was , but for the call to rejoin him where he is , I recognize his voice, speaking as it ever spoke, for the Union, the Constitution, and the freedom of mankind. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Sydney H. Gay
S. H. Gay, Esq Washington, D.C., N. Y. Tribune August 9. 1862.
When will you come? Will your correspondent come with you? A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
August 9, 1862
Respectfully submitted to Major General Halleck. Aug. 9. 1862. A. LINCOLN Let John B. S. Todd, be appointed a Brigadier General. Feb. 6. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 9, 1862
If Senator King has investigated, and says William Lilley is ``all right'' and another assistant Q.M. is needed, let him, Mr. L. be appointed---or---rather, re-instated. A. LINCOLN Aug. 9, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon Sec of War Executive Mansion Sir Washington Aug 9 1862
I have examined and seen tried the ``Rafael Repeater'' and consider it a decided improvement upon what was called the ``Coffee Mill Gun'' in these particulars that it dispenses with the great cost and liability to loss of the Steel cartridges and that it is better arranged to prevent the escape of gas. Other advantages are claimed for it upon which I cannot so well speak. While I do not order it into the service I think it well worthy of the attention of the Ordnance Bureau and should be rather pleased if it should be decided to put it into the service Yours Truly A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please respond. I think we better take while we can get. A. LINCOLN Aug. 9, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If an Additional PayMaster is needed, let Mr. Ripley be appointed. Aug. 9. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please respond to this A. LINCOLN Aug. 9, 1862.

To Edward Bates
August 11, 1862
On examination of George Krager's case, I think he was properly convicted; but as he was quite young, was of good character before the offence, and has behaved well in the prison, and has already suffered more than four years, I have concluded to direct his pardon for the remainder of his punishment. A. LINCOLN Aug. 11. 1862

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Majr. Genl. Burnside Washington, D.C., Falmouth, Va Aug 11. 1862.
Has King's Division, in part, or in whole, joined Pope yet? A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
August 11, 1862
James A. Briggs. Left with me by Hon. Mr. Ashley, with his commendation of the applicant. I know James A. Briggs, and believe him to be an excellent man. Aug. 11. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Gov. Morton is one of our best Governors, but I do not think he would be the best Military commander. A. L INCOLN Aug. 11. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let Dr. Baker's leave of absence be extended to the 20th. of August Inst. A. LINCOLN Aug. 11. 1862.

To John A. Andrew
Gov. Andrew, Washington, D.C., Boston, Mass. Aug. 12 1862.
Your despatch saying ``I cant get those regts. off because I cant get quick work out of the U.S. disbursing officer & the Paymaster'' is received. Please say to these gentlemen that if they do not work quickly I will make quick work with them. In the name of all that is reasonable, how long does it take to pay a couple of Regts.? We were never more in need of the arrival of Regts. than now---even to-day. A. LINCOLN.

To Cassius M. Clay
Executive Mansion, Hon. Cassius M. Clay. Washington, Aug. 12, 1862.
My dear Sir: I learn that you would not dislike returning to Russia as Minister Plenopotentiary. You were not recalled for any fault of yours, but, as understood, it was done at your own request. Of course there is no personal objection to your re-appointment. Still, Gen. Cameron can not be recalled except by his request. Some conversation passing between him and myself, renders it due that he should not resign without full notice of my intention to re-appoint you. If he resign with such full knowledge, and understanding, I shall be quite willing, and even gratified, to again send you to Russia. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew G. Curtin
Gov. Curtin Washington, D.C., Harrisburg, Penn. Aug. 12, 1862.
It is very important for some regiments to arrive here at once. What lack you from us? What can we do to expedite matters? Answer. A. LINCOLN

To Cary H. Fry
Pay Master General. Executive Mansion, Sir--- Washington, August 12. 1862
It is happening in many cases that persons do military service for the government without having entered regularly, and gotten upon the pay-rolls. But the service we actually receive we should pay for. Henry D'Ahna claims that he is entitled to something by this rule. I wish his case investigated; and if any thing is due him by such rule, let it be paid, with the distinct understanding that the running of the bill is at an end. Yours &c A. LINCOLN

To William Hoffman
Wm. Hoffman--- Washington, D.C. Detroit, Michigan Aug. 12. 1862
Have you charge of Confederate prisoners at Detroit? If so, is there a Dr. Joseph J. Williams amongst them? A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan, Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir: Washington, Aug. 12, 1862.
It seems that several young Lieutenants, of whom Charles L. Noggle and George A. Rowley are two, have been cashiered by Court Martial for misconduct at the battle of June 27th. The records in the cases of the two named are now before me. I suppose that the law and the nature of the service required it, but these cases seem hard. I enclose the copy of an informal letter by the Judge Advocate in regard to them generally. I shall be obliged if you and the Regimental officers can, consistently with your sense of duty to the service, act upon the suggestions of the Judge Advocate's letter. I am very unwilling for these young men to be ruined for so slight causes. Yours Truly, A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War please respond to this. A. LINCOLN Aug. 12. 1862.

Address on Colonization to a Deputation of Negroes
August 14, 1862
This afternoon the President of the United States gave audience to a Committee of colored men at the White House. They were introduced by the Rev. J. Mitchell, Commissioner of Emigration. E. M. Thomas, the Chairman, remarked that they were there by invitation to hear what the Executive had to say to them. Having all been seated, the President, after a few preliminary observations, informed them that a sum of money had been appropriated by Congress, and placed at his disposition for the purpose of aiding the colonization in some country of the people, or a portion of them, of African descent, thereby making it his duty, as it had for a long time been his inclination, to favor that cause; and why, he asked, should the people of your race be colonized, and where? Why should they leave this country? This is, perhaps, the first question for proper consideration. You and we are different races. We have between us a broader difference than exists between almost any other two races. Whether it is right or wrong I need not discuss, but this physical difference is a great disadvantage to us both, as I think your race suffer very greatly, many of them by living among us, while ours suffer from your presence. In a word we suffer on each side. If this is admitted, it affords a reason at least why we should be separated. You here are freemen I suppose. A VOICE: Yes, sir. The President---Perhaps you have long been free, or all your lives. Your race are suffering, in my judgment, the greatest wrong inflicted on any people. But even when you cease to be slaves, you are yet far removed from being placed on an equality with the white race. You are cut off from many of the advantages which the other race enjoy. The aspiration of men is to enjoy equality with the best when free, but on this broad continent, not a single man of your race is made the equal of a single man of ours. Go where you are treated the best, and the ban is still upon you. I do not propose to discuss this, but to present it as a fact with which we have to deal. I cannot alter it if I would. It is a fact, about which we all think and feel alike, I and you. We look to our condition, owing to the existence of the two races on this continent. I need not recount to you the effects upon white men, growing out of the institution of Slavery. I believe in its general evil effects on the white race. See our present condition---the country engaged in war!---our white men cutting one another's throats, none knowing how far it will extend; and then consider what we know to be the truth. But for your race among us there could not be war, although many men engaged on either side do not care for you one way or the other. Nevertheless, I repeat, without the institution of Slavery and the colored race as a basis, the war could not have an existence. It is better for us both, therefore, to be separated. I know that there are free men among you, who even if they could better their condition are not as much inclined to go out of the country as those, who being slaves could obtain their freedom on this condition. I suppose one of the principal difficulties in the way of colonization is that the free colored man cannot see that his comfort would be advanced by it. You may believe you can live in Washington or elsewhere in the United States the remainder of your life [as easily], perhaps more so than you can in any foreign country, and hence you may come to the conclusion that you have nothing to do with the idea of going to a foreign country. This is (I speak in no unkind sense) an extremely selfish view of the case. But you ought to do something to help those who are not so fortunate as yourselves. There is an unwillingness on the part of our people, harsh as it may be, for you free colored people to remain with us. Now, if you could give a start to white people, you would open a wide door for many to be made free. If we deal with those who are not free at the beginning, and whose intellects are clouded by Slavery, we have very poor materials to start with. If intelligent colored men, such as are before me, would move in this matter, much might be accomplished. It is exceedingly important that we have men at the beginning capable of thinking as white men, and not those who have been systematically oppressed. There is much to encourage you. For the sake of your race you should sacrifice something of your present comfort for the purpose of being as grand in that respect as the white people. It is a cheering thought throughout life that something can be done to ameliorate the condition of those who have been subject to the hard usage of the world. It is difficult to make a man miserable while he feels he is worthy of himself, and claims kindred to the great God who made him. In the American Revolutionary war sacrifices were made by men engaged in it; but they were cheered by the future. Gen. Washington himself endured greater physical hardships than if he had remained a British subject. Yet he was a happy man, because he was engaged in benefiting his race---something for the children of his neighbors, having none of his own. The colony of Liberia has been in existence a long time. In a certain sense it is a success. The old President of Liberia, Roberts, has just been with me---the first time I ever saw him. He says they have within the bounds of that colony between 300,000 and 400,000 people, or more than in some of our old States, such as Rhode Island or Delaware, or in some of our newer States, and less than in some of our larger ones. They are not all American colonists, or their descendants. Something less than 12,000 have been sent thither from this country. Many of the original settlers have died, yet, like people elsewhere, their offspring outnumber those deceased. The question is if the colored people are persuaded to go anywhere, why not there? One reason for an unwillingness to do so is that some of you would rather remain within reach of the country of your nativity. I do not know how much attachment you may have toward our race. It does not strike me that you have the greatest reason to love them. But still you are attached to them at all events. The place I am thinking about having for a colony is in Central America. It is nearer to us than Liberia---not much more than one-fourth as far as Liberia, and within seven days' run by steamers. Unlike Liberia it is on a great line of travel---it is a highway. The country is a very excellent one for any people, and with great natural resources and advantages, and especially because of the similarity of climate with your native land---thus being suited to your physical condition. The particular place I have in view is to be a great highway from the Atlantic or Caribbean Sea to the Pacific Ocean, and this particular place has all the advantages for a colony. On both sides there are harbors among the finest in the world. Again, there is evidence of very rich coal mines. A certain amount of coal is valuable in any country, and there may be more than enough for the wants of the country. Why I attach so much importance to coal is, it will afford an opportunity to the inhabitants for immediate employment till they get ready to settle permanently in their homes. If you take colonists where there is no good landing, there is a bad show; and so where there is nothing to cultivate, and of which to make a farm. But if something is started so that you can get your daily bread as soon as you reach there, it is a great advantage. Coal land is the best thing I know of with which to commence an enterprise. To return, you have been talked to upon this subject, and told that a speculation is intended by gentlemen, who have an interest in the country, including the coal mines. We have been mistaken all our lives if we do not know whites as well as blacks look to their self-interest. Unless among those deficient of intellect everybody you trade with makes something. You meet with these things here as elsewhere. If such persons have what will be an advantage to them, the question is whether it cannot be made of advantage to you. You are intelligent, and know that success does not as much depend on external help as on self-reliance. Much, therefore, depends upon yourselves. As to the coal mines, I think I see the means available for your self-reliance. I shall, if I get a sufficient number of you engaged, have provisions made that you shall not be wronged. If you will engage in the enterprise I will spend some of the money intrusted to me. I am not sure you will succeed. The Government may lose the money, but we cannot succeed unless we try; but we think, with care, we can succeed. The political affairs in Central America are not in quite as satisfactory condition as I wish. There are contending factions in that quarter; but it is true all the factions are agreed alike on the subject of colonization, and want it, and are more generous than we are here. To your colored race they have no objection. Besides, I would endeavor to have you made equals, and have the best assurance that you should be the equals of the best. The practical thing I want to ascertain is whether I can get a number of able-bodied men, with their wives and children, who are willing to go, when I present evidence of encouragement and protection. Could I get a hundred tolerably intelligent men, with their wives and children, to ``cut their own fodder,'' so to speak? Can I have fifty? If I could find twenty-five able-bodied men, with a mixture of women and children, good things in the family relation, I think I could make a successful commencement. I want you to let me know whether this can be done or not. This is the practical part of my wish to see you. These are subjects of very great importance, worthy of a month's study, [instead] of a speech delivered in an hour. I ask you then to consider seriously not pertaining to yourselves merely, nor for your race, and ours, for the present time, but as one of the things, if successfully managed, for the good of mankind---not confined to the present generation, but as ``From age to age descends the lay, To millions yet to be, Till far its echoes roll away, Into eternity.'' The above is merely given as the substance of the President's remarks. The Chairman of the delegation briefly replied that ``they would hold a consultation and in a short time give an answer.'' The President said: ``Take your full time---no hurry at all.'' The delegation then withdrew.

To Salmon P. Chase
Sir: Washington, August, 14, 1862.
I have signed and herewith return the tax commissions for Connecticut, except two, in which I substituted Henry Hammond for Rufus S. Matherson [ sic ], and David F. Hollister for Frederick S. Wildman. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Sec. of Treasury Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, Aug. 14, 1862.
I have signed, & herewith return, the Delaware Tax Commissions. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Sir: Executive Mansion, Washington, August 14, 1862.
I have signed and herewith send the New Jersey tax commissions, so far as laid before me. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Henry M. Lazella
Washington, D.C., Aug. 14 1862.
Officer in charge of Confederate prisoners at Camp Chase Ohio It is believed that a Dr. J. J. Williams is a prisoner in your charge, and if so, tell him his wife is here, and allow him to Telegraph to her. A. LINCOLN

To James Dixon
Hon. James Dixon Executive Mansion, Hartford, Conn. Washington, Aug. 15 1862.
Come here. A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery C. Meigs

Qr Mr Genl: please give the Bearer Mr Foster a pass to Newbern, N.C. A. LINCOLN Aug: 15/62

To Edwin M. Stanton

If another Additional Paymaster is needed, let Gen. Mallett be appointed. A. LINCOLN Aug. 15. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton

When an Additional Paymaster is needed let Mr. Newcomer be appointed A. LINCOLN Aug. 15, 1862

To Joseph H. Tucker
Executive Mansion, Washington, Aug. 15. 1862.
Officer having prisoners in charge at Camp Douglas, near Chicago, Ills. Is there a prisoner---Dr. Joseph J. Williams?, and if so, tell him his wife is here, and allow him to Telegraph her. A. LINCOLN.

To Hiram P. Barney
Hon. Hiram Barney, Executive Mansion New-York Washington, Aug. 16, 1862
Mrs. L. has $1000.00 for the benefit of the hospitals; and she will be obliged, and send the pay, if you will be so good as to select and send her two hundred dollars worth of good lemmons, and one hundred dollars worth of good oranges. A. LINCOLN

To George P. Fisher
Hon. Geo. P. Fisher Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Washington, Aug. 16. 1862
I was painfully surprised by your letter, handed me by the P.M.G.; because the Secretary of War, who saw you after I did, had assured me, that you and accompanying friends, were fully satisfied with what he had undertaken to do. Since receiving your letter, I have seen him again, and he again assures me that such was his understanding. I went over your eight points with him to see which he accepted, and which he rejected. He rejects that about postponing drafting till the 15th. of September. He accepts that about the 3rd. Delaware Regiment. He accepts that about Col. Grimshaw's Regiment. He accepts that about the battery of Artillery, if it be the battery heretofore authorized. He accepts that about the Battalion of Cavalry. He accepts that about forces remaining in the State. He rejects that about drafting being made under the Marshal of the District. He thinks he could not be justified to thus snub the Governor who is apparently doing right, but he will at once check anything which may be apparently wrong. He accepts that about appointing officers by the War Department---unless some serious, and now unforeseen obstacle shall be presented. I do hope you will be able to get along upon this. The Secretary feels very sure that Judge Gilpin  thinks you can. I mean this as a private letter, but I am quite willing for you to show it to Judge Gilpin. I do hope you will not indulge a thought which will admit of your saying the administration turns you over to the fury of your enemies. You certainly know I wish your success as much as you can wish it yourself. Your friend, as ever A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If an additional Paymaster is needed, let Mr. Phelps be appointed. Aug. 16. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
August 18, 1862
Mr. Sec. of the Treasury & Com of Revenue--- Please see Mr Talcott---one of the best men there is---and if any difference---one they would like better than they do me. A. LINCOLN Aug. 18th 1862

To Andrew G. Curtin
August 18, 1862
Under all the circumstances of this case, if the Governor of Pennsylvania shall think fit to appoint Dr. Hays a Surgeon of a Pennsylvania Regiment, he may be mustered into the United States service A. LINCOLN Aug. 18. 1862

To Cary H. Fry
Executive Mansion Aug. 18, 1862
If the Paymaster General is satisfied upon examination of this case that Lieut Tosk actually performed the service stated and is kept from his pay by a mere informality which my order will remedy, let him be paid. A. LINCOLN

Invitation to Dinner
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 18, 1862.
I wish the Secretary of War General Halleck General McCall Colonel Corcoran Colonel Wilcox and Colonel Wood to dine with me today at half-past six P.M. A LINCOLN

To Seymour B. Moody
S. B. Moody Executive Mansion, Springfield Illinois. Washington, August 18, 1862.
Which do you prefer Commissary or Quarter master? If appointed it must be without conditions. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 18, 1862
If another Additional Paymaster is needed let Mr. Wood be appointed. It is thought probable that G. W. Burns, already appointed, may resign, or not qualify, & if so, his place could at once be given Mr. Wood, as they both reside at Quincy, Illinois Aug. 18. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Anna E. Carroll
Executive Mansion Dear Miss Carroll August 19th. 1862
Like every thing else that comes from you I have read the address to Maryland with a great deal of pleasure and interest. It is just what is needed now and you were the one to do it Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To William A. Hammond
August 19, 1862
Respectfully submitted to the Surgeon General--- Dr. Adolph Mayer [ sic ], says he was a Brigade Surgeon, & resigned because of a hurt, from which he is sufficiently recovered to resume his duties, which he wishes to do. If the Surgeon General has no objection & will point out the way, I will do what is necessary on my part. A. LINCOLN Aug. 19. 1862.

Memorandum:Appointment of William Masten
Executive Mansion, Washington, Aug. 19. 1862.
To-day, Hon. Mr. Steele, of N.Y. comes and expresses great anxiety that William Masten may be appointed Collector in the District including Ulster County. He says Mr. M . is a Republican, but one to whom he, Mr. S. is under personal obligations. Mr. S. fully explains about indictments.

Memorandum: New York Appointments
[c. August 19, 1862]
Mr. Halstead is is [ sic ] Mr. Pomeroy's man. Mr. Latham is Mr. Chamberlin's man. By change of Districts they are thrown together & brought, into collision. Mr. W[eed]. wishes to leave at a ballance with me.

To William H. Seward

Sec. of State, please see Gov. Koerner, the new Minister to Spain. Aug. 19. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War please confer with Gen. Halleck & respond to them. Aug. 19. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please respond. A. LINCOLN Aug. 19, 1862

To John A. Andrew
Gov. Andrew Washington, D.C., Boston, Mass. Aug. 20, 1862.
Neither the Secretary of War, nor I, know any thing, except what you tell us, about the ``published official document'' you mention. A. LINCOLN

To Cary H. Fry
August 20, 1862
I did not ask for information as to whether this man has been mustered into service. Have we accepted his actual service? If we have, let him be paid for them; unless there is positive law against it. A. LINCOLN Aug. 20. 1862.

To David P. Holloway
Comr. of Patents Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Aug. 20, 1862.
My friend, Capt. Diller, bearer of this, wishes the assistance of Dr. Wetherell, Chemist in your Bureau, to make an experiment, in which he Capt. Diller, trusts Dr. Wetherell, the government wishing, as yet, not to be trusted with the secret. Please let Dr. Wetherell give him the assistance. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside or John G. Parke
To Gen. Burnside Received Aug. 21st. 1862.
or Gen. Parke: From Washington What news about arrival of troops? A. LINCOLN

To James Dixon
PRIVATE War Department Hon. James Dixon Washington City, D.C. My dear Sir: August 21. 1862
It was with great regret I felt constrained to give the tax appointment, sought for Mr. Hammond, to another. If some arrangement for his benefit could be made, I should be glad, I hope to find an oppertunity of yet recognizing him. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Margaret Preston
Mrs. Margaret Preston Washington, D.C., Lexington, Ky. Aug. 21. 1862.
Your despatch to Mrs. L. received yesterday. She is not well. Owing to her early and strong friendship for you, I would gladly oblige you, but I can not absolutely do it. If Gen. Boyle and Hon. James Guthrie, one or both, in their discretion, see fit to give you the passes, this is my authority to them for doing so. A. LINCOLN.

Recommendation for Mason W. Newell
August 21, 1862
Mr. Mason W. Newell, within recommended for Railroad employment, is personally known to me as a Railroad man. He was engaged in that capacity at Springfield, the place of my residence, for five years, and during that time enjoyed the reputation of a most competent and faithful man. I afterwards saw him at Cincinnati, engaged in the same business. I never heard any thing against him personally or professionally. I shall be very glad if employment can be found for him. A. LINCOLN Aug. 21. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please respond to this. A. LINCOLN Aug. 21, 1862

To Gillet F. Watson
Gillet F. Watson Executive Mansion, Williamsburg, Va. Washington, August 21, 1862.
Your Telegram in regard to the Lunatic Assylum has been received. It is certainly a case of difficulty; but if you can not remain, I can not conceive who , under my authority, can. Remain as long as you safely can, and provide as well as you can for the poor inmates of the Institution. A. LINCOLN.

To Gideon Welles
Sir, Executive Mansion August 21st 1862
Under the authority vested in me by the Act approved July 14, 1862. I have ``selected the following candidates from the Sons of officers or soldiers who distinguished themselves in the service of the United States'' &c. for admission into the Naval Academy as Midshipmen: 1 H. Livingston Mansfield. 2 James McB. Stembel. 3 Wm. H. Emory. 4 R. M. Cutts. 5 Morris A. [Morris R.S.] Mackenzie. 6 George Mansfield Totten, and 7 Henry W. Wessells. I am, respectfully Honble Gideon Welles Secretary of the Navy.

To Horace Greeley
Hon. Horace Greely: Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, August 22, 1862.
I have just read yours of the 19th. addressed to myself through the New-York Tribune. If there be in it any statements, or assumptions of fact, which I may know to be erroneous, I do not, now and here, controvert them. If there be in it any inferences which I may believe to be falsely drawn, I do not now and here, argue against them. If there be perceptable in it an impatient and dictatorial tone, I waive it in deference to an old friend, whose heart I have always supposed to be right. As to the policy I ``seem to be pursuing'' as you say, I have not meant to leave any one in doubt. I would save the Union. I would save it the shortest way under the Constitution. The sooner the national authority can be restored; the nearer the Union will be ``the Union as it was.''  If there be those who would not save the Union, unless they could at the same time save slavery, I do not agree with them. If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time destroy slavery, I do not agree with them. My paramount object in this struggle is to save the Union, and is not either to save or to destroy slavery. If I could save the Union without freeing any slave I would do it, and if I could save it by freeing all the slaves I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing some and leaving others alone I would also do that. What I do about slavery, and the colored race, I do because I believe it helps to save the Union; and what I forbear, I forbear because I do not believe it would help to save the Union. I shall do less whenever I shall believe what I am doing hurts the cause, and I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help the cause. I shall try to correct errors when shown to be errors; and I shall adopt new views so fast as they shall appear to be true views. I have here stated my purpose according to my view of official duty; and I intend no modification of my oft-expressed personal wish that all men every where could be free. Yours, A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Respectfully submitted to the Navy Department, asking special attention, and as favorable action as may be consistent. Aug. 22. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Let Andrew Jones, named within, be pardoned, as to the remainder [of] the sentence of imprisonment. A. LINCOLN Aug. 23. 1862

To Henry W. Halleck
August 23, 1862
Submitted to Gen. Halleck, who probably knows, Capt. Garrard. He is the son of Mrs. Judge McLean, whom I would like to oblige if consistent with law & the public service. A. LINCOLN Aug. 23, 1862

To Montgomery C. Meigs
August 23, 1862
If a strictly honest man, who has raised and dealt in cattle & horses all his life could be of service in regard to our broken down horses the bearer of this Mr. Cunningham is the very man. Q.M.G. please see him. A. LINCOLN Aug 23. 1862.

Memorandum:Appointment of Gabriel R. Paul
Executive Mansion, Washington. Aug. 23, 1862.
To-day, Mrs. Major Paul, of the Regular Army calls and urges the appointment of her husband as a Brig. Genl. She is a saucy woman and I am afraid she will keep tormenting till I may have to do it.

To S. Irenaeus Prime
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, Aug 23, 1862.
I have received your letter of the 21st August and the accompanying paper. Accept my cordial thanks for your good wishes and your courtesy, and believe me, very truly Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

This gentleman, though very plain spoken, in pursuit of an office, is excellently recommended as a worthy gentleman. Aug. 23. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I ask respectful consideration for the within. A. LINCOLN Aug. 23. 1862.

To Richard Yates
Hon. R. Yates Washington. D.C., Springfield, Ills. Aug. 23 1862. [8 A.M.]
I am pained to hear that you reject the service of an officer we sent to assist in organizing and getting off troops. Pensylvania and Indiana accepted such officers, kindly; and they now have more than twice as many new troops in the field, as all the other states together. If Illinois had got forward as many troops as Indiana, Cumberland Gap would soon be relieved from it's present peril. Please do not ruin us on punctilio . A. LINCOLN

To Isabel II
August 25, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To Her Majesty Dona Isabel II, By the Grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy, Queen of Spain, &c., &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 28th. of May, last, announcing that the Duchess of Montpensier, Your Majesty's beloved sister, had on the 12th. of the same month safely given birth to an Infante, upon whom, in sacred baptism, had been bestowed the names of Felipe Ramon Maria. I participate in the satisfaction which this happy event has afforded to Your Majesty's Royal Family, and offer my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping! Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, August 25, 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Isabel II
August 25, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To Her Majesty Dona Isabel II, By the Grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy Queen of Spain, &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 18th. ultimo, announcing the birth of an Infanta upon whom had been bestowed in sacred baptism the names of Maria de la Paz Juana Amalia Adalberta Francisca de Paula Juana Bautista Isabel Francisca de Asis. I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event, and offer to Your Majesty my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping! Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, August 25, 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Richard Yates
Hon. R. Yates, Governor Executive Mansion, Springfield, Ills. Washington, August 25, 1862.
Yours denying that you have rejected the service of an officer sent you by us, is received. Of course I do not question your word; and yet what I said was based upon direct evidence; and I the more readily gave credit to it because I had previously had so much trouble between officers sent to Illinois and the State government there. I certainly can not conceive what it was I said which can be construed as injustice to Illinois. I knew by your despatches that Ills. had raised an unexpectedly large number of troops, and my impatience was that none of them could be got forward. I supposed too, and know nothing to the contrary yet, that the government had made the same provision for Illinois as for Pennsylvania and Indiana. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion Aug 26. 1862
B. B. French, Esq. Commr. of Public Buildings is hereby authorized to draw on the sum appropriated at the last session of Congress, of $250 for Books for the Executive Mansion, for the sum of ($125 90) one hundred twenty five dollars ninety cents. To the Secy. of the Treasury. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin B. French
Hon. B. B. French Washington, Aug. 26. 1862.
Sir With the sum created by what you draw on the book fund and my private check of $124.25, pay T. J. Crowen of New-York one $175.00, and William F. Richstein, $75.00. A. LINCOLN

To Jesse O. Norton
Hon. Jesse O. Norton Executive Mansion, Joliet, Ills. Washington, Aug. 26. 1862.
I can give you Collector, but not Assessor. Which will you have for Collector, Ellsworth, or McIntosh? Answer at once. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I would especially like for this appointment to be made if it consistently can be. A. LINCOLN Aug. 26. 1862.

To Gideon Welles
August 26, 1862
I shall be obliged if the within request can be granted---if not immediately, as soon as possible. A. LINCOLN.

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major Gen. Burnside Falmouth, Va. Aug. 27. 4./30 P.M. 1862
Do you hear any thing from Pope? A. LINCOLN

To Herman Haupt
War Department, August 27, 1862.
Is the railroad bridge over Bull Run destroyed? Colonel Haupt. A. LINCOLN.

To Herman Haupt
War Department, August 27, 1862.
What became of our forces which held the bridge till twenty minutes ago, as you say? A. LINCOLN. Colonel Haupt.

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan Alexandria, Va Aug.27. 4 P.M. 1862.
What news from the front? A LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Marshall B. Blake
Executive Mansion, Washington, Aug. 27. 1862.
To-day Hon. F. A. Conkling, asks that Marshall B. Blake be Collector in the 6th. District instead of the 7th. as recommended. The 6.th. is Mr. Conkling's, and Mr. Blake resides in the 6.th & not in the 7th. On something I said to Mr. Conkling, he did not get up recommendations of Mr.B. Says both are good men. Blake has never had any thing[.] Orton has an office of $1200, in same District. Is for Blake. Says Orton could go to 7th.

Memorandum:Appointment of John B. Colton
August 27, 1862
To-day, Aug. 27, 1862, Hon: O. Lovejoy, says he would like for John B. Colton, of Galesburg, to be a Paymaster of volunteers, and I should be glad to oblige him when it can consistently be done. A. LINCOLN

To Alexander Ramsey
Gov. Ramsay Executive Mansion, St. Paul Minnesota. Washington, Aug. 27, 1862.
Yours received. Attend to the Indians. If the draft can not proceed, of course it will not proceed. Necessity knows no law. The government can not extend the time. A. LINCOLN

To Wait Talcott
Hon. Wait Talcott Executive Mansion My dear Sir Washington, Aug. 27, 1862.
I have determined to appoint you Collector. I now have a very special request to make of you, which is that you will make no war upon Mr. Washburne, who is also my friend of longer standing than yourself. I shall even be obliged if you can do something for him if occasion presents. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major Genl. Burnside Falmouth, Va Aug. 28. 2/40 P.M. 1862
Any news from Gen. Pope? A. LINCOLN

To Herman Haupt
Col. Haupt. Alexandria, Va. Aug. 28. 2/40 P.M. 1862
Yours received. How do you learn that the rebel forces at Manassas are large and commanded by several of their best generals? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 28, 1862
I personally know Thomson R.Webber of Illinois to be an honest and capable man, having for a long time been Clerk of one of the Courts in which I practiced. . . .

To James S. Wadsworth

Gen. Wadsworth, please see the two gentlemen whose names are on the other side. I believe they will not misrepresent Aug. 28. 1862. A LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major Genl. Burnside Washington, D.C., Falmouth, Va. Aug. 29. 2/30 P.MX 1862.
Any further news? Does Col. Devin mean that sound of firing was heard in direction of Warrenton, as stated, or in direction of Warrenton Junction? A. LINCOLN

To Herman Haupt
War Department, August 29, 1862.
What news from direction of Manassas? What generally? Colonel Haupt. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
War Department, Major Genl. McClellan Washington, D.C., Alexandria, Va. Aug. 29. 2/30. 1862.
What news from direction of Mannassas Junction? What generally? A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major Genl. McClellan Washington, D.C., Alexandria, Va Aug. 29. 1862.
Yours of to-day just received. I think your first alternative, towit, ``to concentrate all our available forces to open communication with Pope,'' is the right one. But I wish not to control. That I now leave to Gen. Halleck, aided by your counsels. A. LINCOLN

To Lorenzo Thomas
[c. August 29, 1862]
The Adjutant General will inform the Govt. of Pennsylvania that I will not reject Surgeon Neff from the service, if the Governor chooses to re-appoint him.

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Major Genl. Banks. Manassas Junction, Va August 30. 8/35 PM. 1862
Please tell me what news. A LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
August 30, 1862
Gen. Halleck, please see Lieut. Morse who left Centerville at 4. P.M. yesterday A. LINCOLN Aug 30, 1862

To Herman Haupt
Col. Haupt. Washington, D.C., Alexandria, Va. Aug. 30, 10/20 AM 1862.
What news? A. LINCOLN

To Herman Haupt
Col. Haupt, Alexandria, Va Aug. 30. 1862, 3/50. P.M
Please send me the latest news. A. LINCOLN

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. Boyle Louisville, Ky Aug. 31. 1862
What force, and what the numbers, of it, which Gen. Nelson had in the engagement near Richmond yesterday? A. LINCOLN

To Herman Haupt
Col. Haupt, United States Military Telegraph. Alexandria, Va Aug. 31. 7/10 A.M. 1862
What news? Do you hear firing this morning? A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
[September 1, 1862]
Bring them in a half hour A.L.

Memorandumon Criticism of Henry W. Halleck
[c. September 1, 1862]
Gen. Halleck is acting on the proposition that the Army under Pope is not to be sacraficed.

To William H. Seward

If this office has not already been filled, I should be very glad to appoint Mr. Briggs, whom I personally know. A. LINCOLN Sept. 1. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir, Washington, Sep. 1. 1862.
I personally know Dr. Levi D Boone, of Chicago, Illinois, who is not in close confinement, but on limits, on parol, under bonds, and oath of allegiance. From my knowledge of him, and the open, and rather marked part he has taken for the war, I think he should be at least, enlarged generally, on the same terms. If the Sec. of War concurs, let it be done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Meditation on the Divine Will
[September 2, 1862?]
The will of God prevails. In great contests each party claims to act in accordance with the will of God. Both may be, and one must be wrong. God can not be for , and against the same thing at the same time. In the present civil war it is quite possible that God's purpose is something different from the purpose of either party---and yet the human instrumentalities, working just as they do, are of the best adaptation to effect His purpose. I am almost ready to say this is probably true---that God wills this contest, and wills that it shall not end yet. By his mere quiet power, on the minds of the now contestants, He could have either saved or destroyed the Union without a human contest. Yet the contest began. And having begun He could give the final victory to either side any day. Yet the contest proceeds.

To Henry W. Halleck
Washington, D.C., Sept. 3, 1862.
Ordered that the General-in-chief, Major General Halleck, immediately commence, and proceed with all possible dispatch, to organize an army for active operations, from all the material within, and coming within his control, independent of the forces he may deem necessary for the defense of Washington, when such active army shall take the field. By order of the President: EDWIN M. STANTON, Secretary of War. Indorsement. Copy delivered to Major General Halleck Sept. 3, 1862 at 10 p.m. E.D. TOWNSEND Asst. Adjt. Genl

To Henry W. Halleck

Gen. Halleck---please read this, & if he pleases, return it to me. Sept. 3. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck

Gen. Halleck, please see, Gen. Sigel. A. LINCOLN Sep. 4. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 4, 1862
Capt. Rives, mentioned within by Gen. John A. McClernand, is the son of John C. Rives, of the Cong. Globe---said to be an excellent officer, and I should be pleased to give the desired promotion, if lawful, and consistent with the service. A. LINCOLN Sep. 4. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir--- Washington, Sep. 4. 1862.
There are special reasons, as I suppose, why James Bowen, of New-York, should be appointed a Brigadier General. Please hear the particulars from Gov. Seward. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James N. Brown
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, September 5, 1862.
I have the honor to acknowledge the reciept of your favor of the 24th August. I fully appreciate the patriotism and devotion which dictated the tender of service of the Agricultural Society and have referred the matter to the consideration of the Secretary of War. I am very truly Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN Jas. N. Brown Esq &c &c &c

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 5, 1862
With the concurrence, of the Secretary of War and Gen. Halleck, I shall be very glad for Gen. Turchin to be given a Brigade, composed as desired, if convenient, and sent where active duty is now required in Kentucky. A. LINCOLN Sep. 5. 1862.

To Ginery Twichell
Executive Mansion My Dear Sir Washington September 5. 1862
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt from you of a large amount of Hospital Stores, contributed for the use of the wounded soldiers of the United States Army, by patriotic citizens of Brookline, Brighton, Newton, Watertown and Roxbury. Have the kindness, Sir, to accept my cordial thanks for your own courtesy in the matter, and convey to the generous donors the assurance of my grateful appreciation of their efforts for the health and comfort of those brave men, to whom we are all so deeply indebted. I have the honor to be Very respectfully Your Obt Servt A. LINCOLN G. Twichell Esq &c &c &c

To Henry W. Halleck

Gen. Halleck, please see Gen. Burnside, and exercise his free discretion, on the subject Gen. B. will speak of. Sep. 6. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan

With entire respect, I must repeat that Gen. Halleck must control these questions. A. LINCOLN Sep. 6. 1862.

Memorandum: Appointment of John Love
Executive Mansion, Washington, Sep. 6, 1862.
To-day, Judge Hughes for Gov. Morton, recommends John Love, (West Pointer) for Brigadier Genl.

To Edwin D. Morgan
September 6, 1862
I hereby relieve Frederick Van Tine, from the effect of the discharged [ sic ] mentioned, so far as to authorize the Governor of New-York to give him a Military appointment if he sees fit. Sep. 6. 1862. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 6, 1862
The indiscriminate dismissal of all the officers of Col. Mason's regiment, who surrendered Clarks'ville Tenn. may be wrong. Will the Sec. of War please see and hear Capt. Houck? Sep. 6. 1862. A. LINCOLN.

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. Boyle: Washington City, D.C. Louisville, Ky. Sep. 7 1862
Where is Gen. Bragg? What do you know on the subject? A. LINCOLN

To Don. C. Buell
Major Genl. Buell Washington City, D.C. Nashville, Tenn. Sep. 7 1862 [7:20 P.M.]
What degree of certainty have you, that Bragg, with his command, is not now in the valley of the Shenandoah, Virginia? A. LINCOLN

To John E. Wool
Major General Wool Washington City, D.C. Baltimore--- Sep. 7, 1862
What about Harper's Ferry? Do you know any thing about it? How certain is your information about Bragg being in the valley of the Shenandoah? A. LINCOLN

To Horatio G. Wright
Gen. Wright Washington City, D.C. Cincinnati, O. Sep. 7 1862
Do you know, to any certainty, where Gen. Bragg is? May he not be in Virginia? A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan Washington, D.C., Rockville, Md. Sep. 8. 1862.
How does it look now? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If a Commissary is needed in the place indicated, let the appointment be made. A. LINCOLN Sep. 8. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please respond to this? A. LINCOLN Sep. 8. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, Sep. 9. 1862.
Father O'Hara, of Syracuse, New-York, coming to me well recommended by Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson, & others, as working earnestly & efficiently for our cause, with the people of his county & church, asks that his brother, Daniel O.Hara, who also has spent much time and money in the cause, may be made, a Brigadier Quarter Master, or Commissary. If such an officer is needed, I should be glad for Mr. O.Hara to be appointed. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Secretary of War, please respond to this; and do as well as possible in the premises. A. LINCOLN Sep. 9. 1862.

To Thomas Webster
Thomas Webster Washington, Philadelphia. Sep. 9. 1862
Your despatch received & referred to Gen. Halleck, who must control the questions presented. While I am not surprized at your anxiety, I do not think you are in any danger. If half our troops were in Philadelphia, the enemy could take it, because he would not fear to leave the other half in his rear; but with the whole of them here, he dares not to leave them in his rear. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major Genl. McClellan. Washington City, Rockville, Md. Sep. 10. 10/15 AM. 1862.
How does it look now? A. LINCOLN

To John A. McClernand
Executive Mansion, Washington. Major Genl. John A. McClernand, Sep. 10. 1862.
Hon. W. J. Allen may be discharged if you advise it, on such terms as you may advise. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, Sep. 10. 1862.
Gen. Casey's report of arrival of troops is different from that of the Railroad agent. The agent reports to me this morning as follows, for yesterday. 133 	N.Y. 	950 11 	Vt. 	991 139. 	N.Y. 	1017 119. 	Do 	800 Recruits for old Regs. 	254 ----- 4012 You see the difference A. LINCOLN

Approval of Contract with Ambrose W. Thompson
Executive Mansion, Washington, September 11, 1862.
The within contract is approved, and the Secretary of the Interior is directed to execute the same. A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew G. Curtin
His Excellency Andrew G. Curtin, War Department, Governor of Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C., Harrisburg, Pa.: September 11, 1862.
Sir: The application made to me by your adjutant-general for authority to call out the militia of the State of Pennsylvania has received careful consideration. It is my anxious desire to afford, as far as possible, the means and powers of the Federal Government to protect the State of Pennsylvania from invasion by the rebel forces, and since, in your judgment, the militia of the State are required, and have been called upon by you, to organize for home defense and protection, I sanction the call that you have made, and will receive them into the service and pay of the United States to the extent that they can be armed, equipped, and usefully employed. The arms and equipments now belonging to the General Government will be needed for the troops called out for the national armies, so that arms can only be furnished for the quota of militia furnished by the draft of nine-months' men, heretofore ordered. But as arms may be supplied by the militia under your call, these, with the 30,000 in your arsenal, will probably be sufficient for the purpose contemplated by your call. You will be authorized to provide such equipments as may be required, according to the regulations of the United States service, which, upon being turned over to the United States Quartermaster's Department, will be paid for at regulation prices, or the rates allowed by the department for such articles. Railroad transportation will also be paid for, as in other cases. Such general officers will be supplied as the exigencies of the service will permit. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew G. Curtin
Hon. A. G. Curtin Washington, D.C., Harrisburg, Penn Sep. 11. 12.M. 1862.
Please tell me at once, what is your latest news from, or towards Hagerstown, or of the enemies movements in any direction. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major Gen. McClellan Sep. 11. 6.P.M. 1862.
This is explanatory. If Porter, Heintzelman, and Sigel were sent you, it would sweep everything from the other side of the river; because the new troops have have [ sic ] been distributed among them, as I understand. Porter reports himself twenty one thousand strong, which can only be by the addition of new troops. He is ordered to-night to join you as quick as possible. I am for sending you all that can be spared, & I hope others can follow Porter very soon. A. LINCOLN

To Caleb B. Smith

I will see Mr. Ross at 9 A.M. to-morrow, if he calls. Sep. 11, 1862 A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir Sep. 11, 1862
I have two long letters from Mr. Belmont, and the above extract is the only part in either, which can be construed to alude to you. I will show you the letters if you wish. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. Boyle--- Washington, Louisville, Ky. Sep. 12. 1862
Your despatch of last evening received. Where is the enemy which you dread in Louisville? How near to you? What is Gen. Gilbert's opinion? With all possible respect for you, I must think Gen. Wright's military opinion is the better. He is as much responsible for Louisville, as for Cincinnati. Gen. Halleck telegraphed him on this very subject yesterday; and I telegraph him now; but for us here, to control him there on the ground would be a Babel of confusion which would be utterly ruinous. Where do you understand Buell to be? and what is he doing? A. LINCOLN

To Andrew G. Curtin
Hon. A. G. Curtin Washington, D.C., Harrisburg, Penn. Sep. 12. 10/35 [A.M.] 1862.
Your despatch asking for eighty thousand disciplined troops to be sent to Pennsylvania is received. Please consider. We have not to exceed eighty thousand disciplined troops, properly so called, this side of the mountains, and most of them, with many of the new regiments, are now close in the rear of the enemy supposed to be invading Pennsylvania. Start half of them to Harrisburg, and the enemy will turn upon and beat the remaining half, and then reach Harrisburg before the part going there, and beat it too when it comes. The best possible security for Pennsylvania is putting the strongest force possible into the enemies rear. A. LINCOLN

To Alexander Henry
Hon. Alexr. Henry Washington City, D.C. Philadelphia. Sep. 12. 1862
Yours of to-day received. Gen. Halleck has made the best provision he can for Generals in Pennsylvania. Please do not be offended when I assure you that, in my confident belief, Philadelphia is in no danger. Gov. Curtin has just telegraphed me ``I have advices that Jackson is crossing the Potomac at Williamsport & probably the whole rebel Army will be drawn from Maryland.'' At all events Philadelphia is more than a hundred and fifty miles from Hagerstown, and could not be reached by the rebel Army in ten days, if no hinderance was interposed. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan Washington City, D.C. Clarksburg, Md. Sep. 12. 4.A.M. 1862
How does it look now? A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C., September 12, 1862--- 5:45 P.M.
Major-General McClellan: Governor Curtin telegraphs me: ``I have advices that Jackson is crossing the Potomac at Williamsport, and probably the whole rebel army will be drawn from Maryland.'' Receiving nothing from Harper's Ferry or Martinsburg to-day, and positive information from Wheeling that the line is cut, corroborates the idea that the enemy is recrossing the Potomac. Please do not let him get off without being hurt. A. LINCOLN.

To Caleb B. Smith
Executive Mansion, September 12, 1862.
The Department of the Interior is charged, under the direction of the President, with the execution of the 11th section of the act for the release of certain persons held to service or labor in the District of Columbia, approved April 16, 1862; and that portion of section 1 of the act making supplemental appropriations for sundry civil expenses; approved July 16, 1862, which appropriates $500,-000 for the colonization of certain persons of African descent. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Horatio G. Wright
Major Gen. Wright Washington, Cincinnati, O. Sep. 12. 1862
I am being appealed [to] from Louisville against your withdrawing troops from that place. While I can not pretend to judge of the propriety of what you are doing, you would much oblige me by furnishing me a rational answer to make to the Governor and others at Louisville. A. LINCOLN

Reply to Emancipation Memorial Presented by Chicago Christians of All Denominations
September 13, 1862
``The subject presented in the memorial is one upon which I have thought much for weeks past, and I may even say for months. I am approached with the most opposite opinions and advice, and that by religious men, who are equally certain that they represent the Divine will. I am sure that either the one or the other class is mistaken in that belief, and perhaps in some respects both. I hope it will not be irreverent for me to say that if it is probable that God would reveal his will to others, on a point so connected with my duty, it might be supposed he would reveal it directly to me; for, unless I am more deceived in myself than I often am, it is my earnest desire to know the will of Providence in this matter. And if I can learn what it is I will do it! These are not, however, the days of miracles, and I suppose it will be granted that I am not to expect a direct revelation. I must study the plain physical facts of the case, ascertain what is possible and learn what appears to be wise and right. The subject is difficult, and good men do not agree. For instance, the other day four gentlemen of standing and intelligence (naming one or two of the number) from New York called, as a delegation, on business connected with the war; but, before leaving, two of them earnestly beset me to proclaim general emancipation, upon which the other two at once attacked them! You know, also, that the last session of Congress had a decided majority of anti-slavery men, yet they could not unite on this policy. And the same is true of the religious people. Why, the rebel soldiers are praying with a great deal more earnestness, I fear, than our own troops, and expecting God to favor their side; for one of our soldiers, who had been taken prisoner, told Senator Wilson, a few days since, that he met with nothing so discouraging as the evident sincerity of those he was among in their prayers. But we will talk over the merits of the case. ``What good would a proclamation of emancipation from me do, especially as we are now situated? I do not want to issue a document that the whole world will see must necessarily be inoperative, like the Pope's bull against the comet! Would my word free the slaves, when I cannot even enforce the Constitution in the rebel States? Is there a single court, or magistrate, or individual that would be influenced by it there? And what reason is there to think it would have any greater effect upon the slaves than the late law of Congress, which I approved, and which offers protection and freedom to the slaves of rebel masters who come within our lines? Yet I cannot learn that that law has caused a single slave to come over to us. And suppose they could be induced by a proclamation of freedom from me to throw themselves upon us, what should we do with them? How can we feed and care for such a multitude? Gen. Butler wrote me a few days since that he was issuing more rations to the slaves who have rushed to him than to all the white troops under his command. They eat , and that is all, though it is true Gen. Butler is feeding the whites also by the thousand; for it nearly amounts to a famine there. If, now, the pressure of the war should call off our forces from New Orleans to defend some other point, what is to prevent the masters from reducing the blacks to slavery again; for I am told that whenever the rebels take any black prisoners, free or slave, they immediately auction them off! They did so with those they took from a boat that was aground in the Tennessee river a few days ago. And then I am very ungenerously attacked for it ! For instance, when, after the late battles at and near Bull Run, an expedition went out from Washington under a flag of truce to bury the dead and bring in the wounded, and the rebels seized the blacks who went along to help and sent them into slavery, Horace Greeley said in his paper that the Government would probably do nothing about it. What could I do? [Here your delegation suggested that this was a gross outrage on a flag of truce, which covers and protects all over which it waves, and that whatever he could do if white men had been similarly detained he could do in this case.] ``Now, then, tell me, if you please, what possible result of good would follow the issuing of such a proclamation as you desire? Understand, I raise no objections against it on legal or constitutional grounds; for, as commander-in-chief of the army and navy, in time of war, I suppose I have a right to take any measure which may best subdue the enemy. Nor do I urge objections of a moral nature, in view of possible consequences of insurrection and massacre at the South. I view the matter as a practical war measure, to be decided upon according to the advantages or disadvantages it may offer to the suppression of the rebellion.'' Thus invited, your delegation very willingly made reply to the following effect; it being understood that a portion of the remarks were intermingled by the way of conversation with those of the President just given. We observed (taking up the President's ideas in order) that good men indeed differed in their opinions on this subject; nevertheless the truth was somewhere , and it was a matter of solemn moment for him to ascertain it; that we had not been so wanting in respect, alike to ourselves and to him, as to come a thousand miles to bring merely our opinion to be set over against the opinion of other parties; that the memorial contained facts, principles, and arguments which appealed to the intelligence of the President and to his faith in Divine Providence; that he could not deny that the Bible denounced oppression as one of the highest of crimes, and threatened Divine judgments against nations that practice it; that our country had been exceedingly guilty in this respect, both at the North and South; that our just punishment has come by a slaveholder's rebellion; that the virus of secession is found wherever the virus of slavery extends, and no farther; so that there is the amplest reason for expecting to avert Divine judgments by putting away the sin, and for hoping to remedy the national troubles by striking at their cause. We observed, further, that we freely admitted the probability, and even the certainty, that God would reveal the path of duty to the President as well as to others, provided he sought to learn it in the appointed way; but, as according to his own remark, Providence wrought by means and not miraculously, it might be, God would use the suggestions and arguments of other minds to secure that result. We felt the deepest personal interest in the matter as of national concern, and would fain aid the thoughts of our President by communicating the convictions of the Christian community from which we came, with the ground upon which they were based. That it was true he could not now enforce the Constitution at the South; but we could see in that fact no reason whatever for not proclaiming emancipation, but rather the contrary. The two appealed to different classes; the latter would aid, and in truth was necessary to re-establish the former; and the two could be made operative together as fast as our armies fought their way southward; while we had yet to hear that he proposed to abandon the Constitution because of the present difficulty of enforcing it. As to the inability of Congress to agree on this policy at the late session, it was quite possible, in view of subsequent events, there might be more unanimity at another meeting. The members have met their constituents and learned of marvellous conversions to the wisdom of emancipation, especially since late reverses have awakened thought as to the extreme peril of the nation, and made bad men as well as good men realize that we have to deal with God in this matter. Men of the most opposite previous views were now uniting in calling for this measure. That to proclaim emancipation would secure the sympathy of Europe and the whole civilized world, which now saw no other reason for the strife than national pride and ambition, an unwillingness to abridge our domain and power. No other step would be so potent to prevent foreign intervention. Furthermore, it would send a thrill through the entire North, firing every patriotic heart, giving the people a glorious principle for which to suffer and to fight, and assuring them that the work was to be so thoroughly done as to leave our country free forever from danger and disgrace in this quarter. We added, that when the proclamation should become widely known (as the law of Congress has not been) it would withdraw the slaves from the rebels, leaving them without laborers, and giving us both laborers and soldiers . That the difficulty experienced by Gen. Butler and other Generals arose from the fact that half-way measures could never avail . It is the inherent vice of half-way measures that they create as many difficulties as they remove. It is folly merely to receive and feed the slaves. They should be welcomed and fed, and then, according to Paul's doctrine, that they who eat must work, be made to labor and to fight for their liberty and ours. With such a policy the blacks would be no incumbrance and their rations no waste. In this respect we should follow the ancient maxim, and learn of the enemy. What the rebels most fear is what we should be most prompt to do; and what they most fear is evident from the hot haste with which, on the first day of the present session of the Rebel Congress, bills were introduced threatening terrible vengeance if we used the blacks in the war. The President rejoined from time to time in about these terms: ``I admit that slavery is the root of the rebellion, or at least its sine qua non . The ambition of politicians may have instigated them to act, but they would have been impotent without slavery as their instrument. I will also concede that emancipation would help us in Europe, and convince them that we are incited by something more than ambition. I grant further that it would help somewhat at the North, though not so much, I fear, as you and those you represent imagine. Still, some additional strength would be added in that way to the war. And then unquestionably it would weaken the rebels by drawing off their laborers, which is of great importance. But I am not so sure we could do much with the blacks. If we were to arm them, I fear that in a few weeks the arms would be in the hands of the rebels; and indeed thus far we have not had arms enough to equip our white troops. I will mention another thing, though it meet only your scorn and contempt: There are fifty thousand bayonets in the Union armies from the Border Slave States. It would be a serious matter if, in consequence of a proclamation such as you desire, they should go over to the rebels. I do not think they all would---not so many indeed as a year ago, or as six months ago---not so many to-day as yesterday. Every day increases their Union feeling. They are also getting their pride enlisted, and want to beat the rebels. Let me say one thing more: I think you should admit that we already have an important principle to rally and unite the people in the fact that constitutional government is at stake. This is a fundamental idea, going down about as deep as any thing.'' We answered that, being fresh from the people, we were naturally more hopeful than himself as to the necessity and probable effect of such a proclamation. The value of constitutional government is indeed a grand idea for which to contend; but the people know that nothing else has put constitutional government in danger but slavery ; that the toleration of that aristocratic and despotic element among our free institutions was the inconsistency that had nearly wrought our ruin and caused free government to appear a failure before the world, and therefore the people demand emancipation to preserve and perpetuate constitutional government. Our idea would thus be found to go deeper than this, and to be armed with corresponding power. (``Yes,'' interrupted Mr. Lincoln, ``that is the true ground of our difficulties.'') That a proclamation of general emancipation, ``giving Liberty and Union'' as the national watch-word, would rouse the people and rally them to his support beyond any thing yet witnessed---appealing alike to conscience, sentiment, and hope. He must remember, too, that present manifestations are no idex of what would then take place. If the leader will but utter a trumpet call the nation will respond with patriotic ardor. No one can tell the power of the right word from the right man to develop the latent fire and enthusiasm of the masses. (``I know it,'' exclaimed Mr. Lincoln.) That good sense must of course be exercised in drilling, arming, and using black as well as white troops to make them efficient; and that in a scarcity of arms it was at least worthy of inquiry whether it were not wise to place a portion of them in the hands of those nearest to the seat of the rebellion and able to strike the deadliest blow. That in case of a proclamation of emancipation we had no fear of serious injury from the desertion of Border State troops. The danger was greatly diminished, as the President had admitted. But let the desertions be what they might, the increased spirit of the North would replace them two to one. One State alone, if necessary, would compensate the loss, were the whole 50,000 to join the enemy. The struggle has gone too far, and cost too much treasure and blood, to allow of a partial settlement. Let the line be drawn at the same time between freedom and slavery, and between loyalty and treason. The sooner we know who are our enemies the better. In bringing our interview to a close, after an hour of earnest and frank discussion, of which the foregoing is a specimen, Mr. Lincoln remarked: ``Do not misunderstand me, because I have mentioned these objections. They indicate the difficulties that have thus far prevented my action in some such way as you desire. I have not decided against a proclamation of liberty to the slaves, but hold the matter under advisement. And I can assure you that the subject is on my mind, by day and night, more than any other. Whatever shall appear to be God's will I will do. I trust that, in the freedom with which I have canvassed your views, I have not in any respect injured your feelings.''

To Cassius M. Clay
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major-General C.M. Clay--- Sept. 14, 1862.
Dear Sir:--- You need not proceed to New Orleans until you hear from me again. I have an understanding with the Secretary of War and General Halleck on this subject. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Horatio G. Wright
`` Cypher '' Gen. Wright Washington, D.C., Cincinnati, O. Sep. 14. 1862.
Thanks for your despatch. Can you not pursue the retreating enemy, and relieve Cumberland Gap? A. LINCOLN

To Jesse K. Dubois
Hon. J.K. Dubois Washington, D.C., Springfield, Ills. Sep. 15. 3. PM 1862.
I now consider it safe to say that Gen. McClellan has gained a great victory over the great rebel army in Maryland between Fredericktown and Hagerstown. He is now pursuing the flying foe. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Washington, D.C., Major General McClellan. Sep. 15, 2/45 1862.
Your despatches of to-day received. God bless you, and all with you. Destroy the rebel army, if possible. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 15, 1862
I wish Capt. E. G. Beckwith, to be a Paymaster in the Army, this taking date, as of July 4, 1862---the day on which I recommended & which recommendation is lost. A. LINCOLN Sep. 15. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton

Secretary of War please respond to these. A. LINCOLN Sep. 15, 1862.

Authorization for William J. Allen
September 16, 1862
Hon. William J. Allen is hereby authorized to report himself to Major General John A. McClernand at Springfield, Illinois, or wherever else he may be found, and to be subject to his, the General's, direction. A. LINCOLN Sept. 16. 1862.

To Andrew G. Curtin
Gov. Curtin Washington, D.C., Harrisburg: Pa. Sep. 16. 12. M. 1862.
What do you hear from Gen. McClellan's army? We have nothing from him to-day. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew G. Curtin
Gov. Curtin Executive Mansion, Washington, Harrisburg Sep. 16. 2/25 P.M. 1862.
Since telegraphing you, despatch came from Gen. McClellan, dated, 7 o'clock this morning. Nothing of importance happened with him yesterday. This morning he was up with the enemy at Sharpsburg, and was waiting for heavy fog to rise. A. LINCOLN

To Oliver P. Morton
Gov. O. P. Morton, Washington, D.C. Indianapolis, Ia. Sep. 17, 1862.
I have received your despatch in regard to recommendations of Gen. Wright. I have received no such despatch from him---at least, not that I can remember. I refer yours for Gen. Halleck's consideration. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 17, 1862
The writer of this, is a personal acquaintance of mine who has been on duty at New-Orleans as a Quarter Master. I have thought it not improper that the Sec. of War should see his suggestions. Sep. 17. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To William A. Hammond
Executive Mansion, Washington, Surgeon General. Sep. 18. 1862.
Please ascertain for me whether Isaac Schneider, of the 100th. New-York Regiment, and now at the Douglas hospital is likely soon, or ever to be fit for duty again. He was wounded at Fair Oaks, as I understand; is but sixteen years old, and I am appealed to to [ sic ] discharge him. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Honorable Secretary of War. September 18, 1862.
Sir: The attached paper is said to contain a list of civilians imprisoned at Salisbury, N.C. Please preserve it. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Caleb B. Smith
To the Honorable Caleb Smith Washington City, Secretary of the Interior September 19th 1862.
It being reported to me by the Secretary of War that the building now occupied as the United States Penitentiary, in the District of Columbia, is absolutely necessary to be used for military purposes as an Arsenal, you are hereby authorized and directed to turn it over, as speedily as possible, to the War Department with its premises and appurtenances. The prisoners confined therein, you will cause to be transported securely, with suitable escort, to such place or places within the United States, as you may be able to provide for their maintenance and imprisonment during the period of their sentences, and until discharged by its expiration. And for so doing this shall be your warrant. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Washington, Dear Sir Sep. 19. 1862.
Mr. Henry G. Ward, accredited Agent for the government of China, represents to me that he purchased three hundred and thirty six barrels of powder at New-York, which he is prevented from shipping by your order. The preventing of the shipping of powder may be a military necessity with us at this time, and if so, it can be no just ground of offence to any other government, as I suppose. But should we not, in such case, tender the purchase money to the agent so that he can use it elsewhere? Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If another Commissary is needed, let the within appointment be made A. LINCOLN Sep. 19, 1862

To William S. Ketchum
Gen. Ketchum, Executive Mansion, Springfield, Ills. Washington, Sep. 20, 1862.
How many regiments are there in Illinois, ready for service, but for the want of arms? How many arms have you there ready for distribution? A. LINCOLN

To William Sprague
His Excellency Gov. William Sprague--- Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Sep. 20. 1862.
I am sure you can not be ignorant of my strong desire to oblige you, so far as in my own judgment, I consistently can; but I can not now so do, that, the procuring of which, seems to be the mission of your friend, J. A. Perry. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
[c. September 20, 1862]
Col. Berdan's Sharp shooters, are an irregular (in a sense, an illegal) organization. It's field and staff officers have had no commissions. It is a good deal reduced by skirmishes, battles, and other hard service. So far as I know, there are no jealousies against it, and it is universally appreciated. I therefore propose that the Sec. of War, with the assistance of the Adjutant General, and Col. Berdan, put the corps into the most effective form, regardless of existing regulations; and I will recommend to Congress to ratify it, giving Commissions, pay &c from the time individuals respectively entered the service. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, Sep. 20, 1862.
I know it is your purpose to send the paroled prisoners to the seat of the Indian difficulties; and I write this only to urge that this be done with all possible despatch. Gen. Wool telegraphs that including those from Harper's Ferry, there are now twenty thousand at Anapolis, requiring four good unparoled regiments to guard them. This should not be endured beyond the earliest moment possible to change it. Arm them and send them away just as fast as the Railroads will carry them. Each regiment arriving on the frontier will relieve a new regiment to come forward. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please read & return these letters to me. Sep. 21. 1862. A. LINCOLN

Preliminary Emancipation Proclamation
September 22, 1862
By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation. I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, and Commander-in-chief of the Army and Navy thereof, do hereby proclaim and declare that hereafter, as heretofore, the war will be prossecuted for the object of practically restoring the constitutional relation between the United States, and each of the states, and the people thereof, in which states that relation is, or may be suspended, or disturbed. That it is my purpose, upon the next meeting of Congress to again recommend the adoption of a practical measure tendering pecuniary aid to the free acceptance or rejection of all slave-states, so called, the people whereof may not then be in rebellion against the United States, and which states,  may then have voluntarily adopted, or thereafter may voluntarily adopt, immediate, or gradual abolishment of slavery within their respective limits; and that the effort to colonize persons of African descent, with  their consent, upon this continent, or elsewhere, with  the previously obtained consent of the Governments existing there, will be continued. That on the first day of January in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any state, or designated part of a state, the people whereof shall then be in rebellion against the United States shall be then, thenceforward, and forever free; and the executive government of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof, will  recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons, and will do no act or acts to repress such persons, or any of them, in any efforts they may make for their actual freedom. That the executive will, on the first day of January aforesaid, by proclamation, designate the States, and parts of states, if any, in which the people thereof respectively, shall then be in rebellion against the United States; and the fact that any state, or the people thereof shall, on that day be, in good faith represented in the Congress of the United States, by members chosen thereto, at elections wherein a majority of the qualified voters of such state shall have participated, shall, in the absence of strong countervailing testimony, be deemed conclusive evidence that such state and the people thereof, are not then in rebellion against the United States. That attention is hereby called to an act of Congress entitled ``An act to make an additional Article of War'' approved March 13, 1862, and which act is in the words and figure following:  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That hereafter the following shall be promulgated as an additional article of war for the government of the army of the United States, and shall be obeyed and observed as such: Article---. All officers or persons in the military or naval service of the United States are prohibited from employing any of the forces under their respective commands for the purpose of returning fugitives from service or labor, who may have escaped from any persons to whom such service or labor is claimed to be due, and any officer who shall be found guilty by a court-martial of violating this article shall be dismissed from the service. SEC. 2. And be it further enacted , That this act shall take effect from and after its passage. Also to the ninth and tenth sections of an act entitled ``An Act to suppress Insurrection, to punish Treason and Rebellion, to seize and confiscate property of rebels, and for other purposes,'' approved July 17, 1862, and which sections are in the words and figures following:  SEC. 9. And be it further enacted , That all slaves of persons who shall hereafter be engaged in rebellion against the government of the United States, or who shall in any way give aid or comfort thereto, escaping from such persons and taking refuge within the lines of the army; and all slaves captured from such persons or deserted by them and coming under the control of the government of the United States; and all slaves of such persons found on (or) being within any place occupied by rebel forces and afterwards occupied by the forces of the United States, shall be deemed captives of war, and shall be forever free of their servitude and not again held as slaves. SEC. 10. And be it further enacted , That no slave escaping into any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, from any other State, shall be delivered up, or in any way impeded or hindered of his liberty, except for crime, or some offence against the laws, unless the person claiming said fugitive shall first make oath that the person to whom the labor or service of such fugitive is alleged to be due is his lawful owner, and has not borne arms against the United States in the present rebellion, nor in any way given aid and comfort thereto; and no person engaged in the military or naval service of the United States shall, under any pretence whatever, assume to decide on the validity of the claim of any person to the service or labor of any other person, or surrender up any such person to the claimant, on pain of being dismissed from the service. And I do hereby enjoin upon and order all persons engaged in the military and naval service of the United States to observe, obey, and enforce, within their respective spheres of service, the act, and sections above recited. And the executive will in due time  recommend that all citizens of the United States who shall have remained loyal thereto throughout the rebellion, shall (upon the restoration of the constitutional relation between the United States, and their respective states, and people, if that relation shall have been suspended or disturbed) be compensated for all losses by acts of the United States, including the loss of slaves. L.S. In  witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. Done at the City of Washington, this twenty second day of September, in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and sixty two, and of the Independence of the United States, the eighty seventh. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

Testimonial for Isachar Zacharie

Dr. Zacharie has operated on my feet with great success, and considerable addition to my comfort. A. LINCOLN Sep. 22. 1862.

Proclamation Suspending the Writ of Habeas Corpus
September 24 1862
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, it has become necessary to call into service not only volunteers but also portions of the militia of the States by draft in order to suppress the insurrection existing in the United States, and disloyal persons are not adequately restrained by the ordinary processes of law from hindering this measure and from giving aid and comfort in various ways to the insurrection; Now, therefore, be it ordered, first, that during the existing insurrection and as a necessary measure for suppressing the same, all Rebels and Insurgents, their aiders and abettors within the United States, and all persons discouraging volunteer enlistments, resisting militia drafts, or guilty of any disloyal practice, affording aid and comfort to Rebels against the authority of the United States, shall be subject to martial law and liable to trial and punishment by Courts Martial or Military Commission: Second. That the Writ of Habeas Corpus is suspended in respect to all persons arrested, or who are now, or hereafter during the rebellion shall be, imprisoned in any fort, camp, arsenal, military prison, or other place of confinement by any military authority or by the sentence of any Court Martial or Military Commission. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington this twenty fourth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, and of the Independence of the United States the 87th. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN. WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 24, 1862
The within recommendations are most ample;---in fact, not often equalled. I respectfully submit the case to the Secretary of War, or, to any Head of a Department or Bureau, with a sincere wish that Mr. Grandin may find a place A. LINCOLN Sep. 24. 1862.

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion Washington Whom it may concern September 24th 1862
Hon Edward Everett goes to Europe shortly. His reputation & the present condition of our country are such, that his visit there is sure to attract notice and may be misconstrued. I therefore think fit to say, that he bears no mission from this government, and yet no gentleman is better able to correct misunderstandings in the minds of foreigners, in regard to American affairs. While I commend him to the consideration of those, whom he may meet, I am quite conscious that he could better introduce me than I him, in Europe. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Reply to Serenade in Honor of Emancipation Proclamation
September 24, 1862
FELLOW-CITIZENS: I appear before you to do little more than acknowledge the courtesy you pay me, and to thank you for it. I have not been distinctly informed why it is this occasion you appear to do me this honor, though I suppose [interruptions] it is because of the proclamation. [Cries of ``Good,'' and applause.] I was about to say, I suppose I understand it. [Laughter---Voices: ``That you do,'' ``You thoroughly understand it.''] What I did, I did after very full deliberation, and under a very heavy and solemn sense of responsibility. [Cries of ``Good,'' ``Good,'' ``Bless you,'' and applause.] I can only trust in God I have made no mistake. [Cries ``No mistake---all right; you've made no mistakes yet. Go ahead, you're right.''] I shall make no attempt on this occasion to sustain what I have done or said by any comment. [Voices---``That's unnecessary; we understand it.''] It is now for the country and the world to pass judgment on it, and, may be, take action upon it. I will say no more upon this subject. In my position I am environed with difficulties. [A voice---``That's so.''] Yet they are scarcely so great as the difficulties of those who, upon the battle field, are endeavoring to purchase with their blood and their lives the future happiness and prosperity of this country. [Applause, long and continued.] Let us never forget them. On the 14th and 17th days of the present month there have been battles bravely, skillfully and successfully fought. [Applause.] We do not yet know the particulars. Let us be sure that in giving praise to particular individuals, we do no injustice to others. I only ask you, at the conclusion of these few remarks, to give three hearty cheers to all good and brave officers and men who fought those successful battles.

To John Ross
John Ross Executive Mansion, Principal Chief of the Washington, Cherokee Nation Sept. 25, 1862.
Sir: Your letter of the 16th. Inst. was received two days ago. In the multitude of cares claiming my constant attention I have been unable to examine and determine the exact treaty relations between the United States and the Cherokee Nation. Neither have I been able to investigate and determine the exact state of facts claimed by you as constituting a failure of treaty obligation on our part, excusing the Cherokee Nation for making a treaty with a portion of the people of the United States in open rebellion against the government thereof. This letter therefore, must not be understood to decide anything upon these questions. I shall, however, cause a careful investigation of them to be made. Meanwhile the Cherokee people remaining practically loyal to the federal Union will receive all the protection which can be given them consistently with the duty of the government to the whole country.  I sincerely hope the Cherokee country may not again be over-run by the enemy; and I shall do all I consistently can to prevent it. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To Alexander II
September 26, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, To His Imperial Majesty Alexander II, Emperor and Autocrat of all the Russias, &c. &c. &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty address [ed] to me on the 6th. of July last, informing me that on the 1st. of that month, Her Imperial Highness the Grand Duchess Alexandra Joseephowna, spouse of Your Majesty's well-beloved Brother, His Imperial Highness, the Grand Duke Constantin Nicolaewitsch, was happily delivered of a son, who has received the name of Viatcheslaw. Your Majesty does but justice to my sentiments in the conviction you have been pleased to express that I will take in an event so satisfactory to your Imperial House the same interest which Your Majesty takes in all that concerns the prosperity of the United States; and I beg Your Majesty to accept my sincere congratulations upon the occasion: and so I recommend Your Majesty and Your Majesty's Imperial Family to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 26th. Septr., 1862. By the President: William H. Seward, Secretary of State.

Reply to Delegation of Loyal Governors
September 26, 1862
The President's reply was brief, and consisted of thanks to the Governors for all they had done and for all they had promised to do to help the General Government in this great crisis. As to the proclamation, he said no fact had assured him so thoroughly of the justice of the conclusion at which he had arrived as that the Executives of the loyal States gave it their hearty approbation. As to the suggestions which they had made in the address just read, he was grateful for them all, but at that moment he would not answer them specifically, although he could say that he would give them his most favorable consideration, and believed he should carry most if not all of them out, so far as possible.

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 26, 1862
There could scarcely be a stronger case made for an appointment than this. If another Brigade Quarter Master can be used profitably, let Asa D. Baker, named within, be appointed. A. LINCOLN Sep. 26. 1862

Record of Dismissal of John J. Key
September 26-27, 1862
We have reason to believe that the following is an exact copy of the record upon which Major John J. Key was dismissed from the military service of the United States. Executive Mansion Major John J. Key Washington, Sept. 26. 1862. Sir: I am informed that in answer to the question ``Why was not the rebel army bagged immediately after the battle near Sharpsburg?'' propounded to you by Major Levi C. Turner, Judge Advocate &c. you answered ``That is not the game'' ``The object is that neither army shall get much advantage of the other; that both shall be kept in the field till they are exhausted, when we will make a compromise and save slavery.'' I shall be very happy if you will, within twentyfour hours from the receipt of this, prove to me by Major Turner, that you did not, either litterally, or in substance, make the answer stated. Yours, A. LINCOLN (Indorsed as follows) ``Copy delivered to Major Key at 10.25 A.M. September 27th. 1862. JOHN HAY.'' At about 11 o'clock, A.M. Sept. 27. 1862. Major Key and Major Turner appear before me. Major Turner says: ``As I remember it, the conversation was, I asked the question why we did not bag them after the battle at Sharpsburg? Major Key's reply was that was not the game, that we should tire the rebels out, and ourselves, that that was the only way the Union could be preserved, we come together fraternally, and slavery be saved'' On cross-examination, Major Turner says he has frequently heard Major Key converse in regard to the present troubles, and never heard him utter a a [ sic ] sentiment unfavorable to the maintainance of the Union. He has never uttered anything which he Major T. would call disloyalty. The particular conversation detailed was a private one A. LINCOLN. (Indorsed on the above) In my view it is wholly inadmissable for any gentleman holding a military commission from the United States to utter such sentiments as Major Key is within proved to have done. Therefore let Major John J. Key be forthwith dismissed from the Military service of the United States. A LINCOLN. The foregoing is the whole record, except the simple order of dismissal at the War Department. At the interview of Major Key and Major Turner with the President, Major Key did not attempt to controvert the statement of Major Turner; but simply insisted, and sought to prove, that he was true to the Union. The substance of the President's reply was that if there was a ``game'' ever among Union men, to have our army not take an advantage of the enemy when it could, it was his object to break up that game.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Secretary of War please consider this, and give me the benefit of his opinion? A. LINCOLN Sep. 27. 1862.

To Hannibal Hamlin
( Strictly private .) Executive Mansion, Washington, September 28, 1862.
My Dear Sir: Your kind letter of the 25th is just received. It is known to some that while I hope something from the proclamation, my expectations are not as sanguine as are those of some friends. The time for its effect southward has not come; but northward the effect should be instantaneous. It is six days old, and while commendation in newspapers and by distinguished individuals is all that a vain man could wish, the stocks have declined, and troops come forward more slowly than ever. This, looked soberly in the face, is not very satisfactory. We have fewer troops in the field at the end of six days than we had at the beginning---the attrition among the old outnumbering the addition by the new. The North responds to the proclamation sufficiently in breath; but breath alone kills no rebels. I wish I could write more cheerfully; nor do I thank you the less for the kindness of your letter. Yours very truly, A. LINCOLN.

To William A. Hammond

Will the Surgeon General please al[l]ow Dr. Of[r]sha to try the case named within? A. LINCOLN Sep. 29. 1862.

To Edward Stanly
Hon. Edward Stanley Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Sep. 29, 1862.
Your note informing me that you will leave for North Carolina soon, is received. Your conduct as Military Governor of that State, as reported to me by Gen. Burnside, and as I have heard it personally from yourself, has my entire approbation; and it is with great satisfaction that I learn you are now to return in the same capacity, with the approbation of the War Department. I shall be much gratified if you can find it practicable to have congressional elections held in that State before January. It is my sincere wish that North Carolina may again govern herself conformably to the constitution of the United States. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 29, 1862
It seems by the within that there is danger of the different religious denominations having some collision in their ministering among the colored people about Port-Royal, and perhaps else-where. I should think each church should minister according to it's own rules, without interference by others differing from them; and if there still be difficulties about places of worship, a real christian charity, and forbearance on the part of all might obviate it. With these views, I submit the subject to the Secretary of War. Sep. 29. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Ought not something to be done for Gen. Casey? What says the Secretary of War? A. LINCOLN Sep. 29. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the within would not violate the rules let it be done. Sep. 29. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To S. Yorke At Lee
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir, Washington, September 30, 1862.
Will you have the kindness to give William Johnson two days leave of absence, if not inconvenient, and oblige. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
September 30, 1862
This letter is written by Nathaniel P. Talmadge, long time ago, U.S. Senator for New-York, and afterwards Territorial Governor of Wisconsin. I personally know nothing of Col. Bragg; and I submit the case to Gen. Halleck. A. LINCOLN Sep. 30. 1862.

To Gideon Welles
September 30, 1862
Col. Harding desires a position in the Navy. I know not that it can be given him; but as the within letters are written by excellent men personally known to me, I refer the case to the Secretary of the Navy, asking respectful attention to it. A. LINCOLN Sep. 30. 1862.

To John E. Wool
Majr. Gen. Wool. Executive Mansion Sir--- Washington, Sep. 30. 1862
Thomas Stackpole, bearer of this, I have known rather intimately since my coming to the White-House; and I believe him to be a worthy and competent business man. Yours truly A LINCOLN

Memorandum on Troops at Antietam
October 1-3, 1862
Head-Quarters Army of the Potomac, 1862. Sumner 	24.130 Burnside 	14.000 Porter 	16.479 Hooker 	8.136 Franklin--- 	17.000 Cavalry--- 	4.000 ------ 83.745 2.190 ------ 85.935 2 160 ------ 88.095 [Endorsement] Men Memoranda obtained Oct. 1,2,&3, 1862

To William I
October 1, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Majesty William I, King of Prussia, &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 15th. of August, last, announcing that Her Royal Highness the Princess Victoria Adelaide Mary Louisa, spouse of the Prince Royal of Prussia, Your Majesty's well-beloved daughter-in-law, had on the preceding day safely given birth to a Prince. I participate in the satisfaction which this happy event has afforded to Your Majesty and to Your Majesty's Royal Family, and offer my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping! Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, October 1, 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

Concerning Mrs. Disney

I would be very glad to oblige Mrs. Disney but I can do no more than I have done, refer her to the Surgeon General. October 3, 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major General Halleck. Head-Quarters Army of the Potomac, Washington, D.C. October 3d. 1862. 8. A.M
General Stuart of the Rebel Army, has sent in a few of our prisoners under a flag of truce, paroled with terms to prevent their fighting the Indians, and evidently seeking to commit us to their right to parole our prisoners in that way. My inclination is to send the prisoners back with a distinct notice that we will recognize no parole given to our prisoners by the rebels, as extending beyond a prohibition against fighting them. Yet I wish your opinion upon it, based upon the general law and our cartel. I wish to avoid violations of law and bad faith. Answer as quick as possible, as the thing, if done at all, should be done at once. A. LINCOLN

Speech at Frederick, Maryland
October 4, 1862
In my present position it is hardly proper for me to make speeches. Every word is so closely noted that it will not do to make trivial ones, and I cannot be expected to be prepared to make a matured one just now. If I were as I have been most of my life, I might perhaps, talk amusing to you for half an hour, and it wouldn't hurt anybody; but as it is, I can only return my sincere thanks for the compliment paid our cause and our common country.

Second Speech at Frederick, Maryland
October 4, 1862
FELLOW-CITIZENS: I see myself surrounded by soldiers, and a little further off I note the citizens of this good city of Frederick, anxious to hear something from me. I can only say, as I did five minutes ago, it is not proper for me to make speeches in my present position. I return thanks to our soldiers for the good service they have rendered, for the energies they have shown, the hardships they have endured, and the blood they have so nobly shed for this dear Union of ours; and I also return thanks not only to the soldiers, but to the good citizens of Maryland, and to all the good men and women in this land, for their devotion to our glorious cause. I say this without any malice in my heart to those who have done otherwise. May our children and our children's children to a thousand generations, continue to enjoy the benefits conferred upon us by a united country, and have cause yet to rejoice under those glorious institutions bequeathed us by Washington and his compeers. Now, my friends, soldiers and citizens, I can only say once more, farewell.

To Salmon P. Chase

If the Sec. of the Treasury can tell what this means it is more than I can. A. LINCOLN Oct. 6. 1862

Memorandum
[c. October 6, 1862]
Mr. Walker tells me verbally that Mr. Crittenden, Mr. Cushing[,] Mr. Bates, have severally given opinions adverse to his within, the latter of which was given since this, without the knowledge of this, as Mr. W. understands; and the two former, were unknown to Mr. W. when he prepared this. A.L.

To William H. Seward

Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of State, with the remark that for some time I have desired to find a place for Mr. Kerr. Oct. 6. 1862 A LINCOLN

To Joseph R. Smith
October 6, 1862
Assistant Surgeon General please see Dr. Stipp. He says he is ordered to Gen. Mc.Clellan's camp while his preparations---tools, so to speak---are at Corinth, Miss. Not intending to interfere by an order, I still would be glad if he could be sent to Corinth. Oct. 6. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan Executive Mansion, Hd. Qrs. A.P. Washington, Oct. 7. 1862.
You wish to see your family, and I wish to oblige you. It might be left to your own discretion---certainly so, if Mrs. M. could meet you here at Washington. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas H. Clay
Thomas H. Clay. Washington, D.C., Cincinnati O. Oct. 8 1862.
You can not have reflected seriously when you ask that I shall order Gen. Morgan's command to Kentucky as a favor, because they have marched from Cumberland Gap. The precedent established by it would instantly break up the whole army. Buell's old troops now in pursuit of Bragg, have done more hard marching recently. And, in fact, if you include marching and fighting, there are scarcely any old troops East or West of the mountains that have not done as hard service. I sincerely wish war was an easier and pleasanter business than it is; but it does not admit of holy-days. On Morgan's command, where it is now sent, as I understand, depends the question whether the enemy will get to the Ohio River in another place. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Major Genl. Grant Washington, D.C., Jackson, Tenn. Oct. 8. 1862.
I congratulate you and all concerned on your recent battles and victories. How does it all sum up? I especially regret the death of Gen. Hackelman; and am very anxious to know the condition of Gen. Oglesby, who is an intimate personal friend. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck

Gen Banks says he is a good man. Submitted to Gen. Halleck Oct. 8. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, may, at his discretion, allow this. A. LINCOLN Oct. 8. 1862.

To Morton McMichael
Morton McMichael Executive Mansion, Office ``North American'' Washington, Philadelphia Pa October 9, 1862.
The letter alluded to in your despatch of yesterday has not been received. A. LINCOLN. Operator Please send above and oblige A. L.

To Montgomery C. Meigs
Quarter-Master General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir, Washington, Oct. 9, 1862
The bearer of this, Elbridge Meconkey, was on Gen. Mc.Call's staff, and was wounded at Gaines' Mill. He now wishes to be a Quarter-Master; and I would like to appoint him, if another Q.M. is now needed. Please answer. Yours truly A. LINCOLN Let Elbridge Meconkey be appointed at once. A. LINCOLN Oct. 10, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 9, 1862
Submitted to the Secretary of War, with the remark that I know little of Senator Rice except that he has been a very faithful friend to the Govt. in the present troubles. A. LINCOLN Oct. 9. 1862. P.S. It might be well to see Mr. Dole, the Com. of Indian Affairs, who has recently returned from that scene of action. A.L.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Oct. 9, 1862.
Gen. Wool, now present, requests that DeWitt Clinton, now a Lieut. be made an aid-de-camp, with the rank of Captain, to serve with the 8th. Army, corps, commanded by Gen. Wool. Let the General be obliged in this, if it can be done according to law. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Major General Curtis Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Oct. 10. 1862.
I believe some Cherokee Indian Regiments, with some white forces operating with them, now at or near Fort-Scott , are within your Department, & under your command. John Ross, principal Chief of the Cherokees, is now here, an exile; and he wishes to know, and so do I, whether the force above mentioned, could not occupy the Cherokee country, consistently with the public service. Please consider and answer. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 10, 1862
The organization attempted by Mr. Boswell, makes a place for people in that region inclined our way, to go; and, in that respect is important. While it is proper that a corps of Northern men should not be raised, & be called Mississippians, still I see no objection to Alabamian's, and even persons from other Southern states, found in Missi[ssi]ppi, joining in the organization. Suppose the Sec. of War modifies his order so as to admit of this; and also providing that when enough for a regiment are obtained they shall go into the service at once, not waiting for the completion of a Brigade---nevertheless Mr. Boswell proceeding to get the materials for a Brigade, if practicable. One man there is worth two here in this, that it adds one to us, and takes one from the enemy; and for which advantage we can afford to endure a little extra extra [ sic ] trouble and perplexity. A. LINCOLN Oct. 10. 1862.

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. Boyle, Washington City, D.C. Louisville, Ky. Oct. 11- 4.PM 1862
Please send any news you have from Gen. Buell to-day. A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Halleck
October 11, 1862
The writer of the within is a most reliable gentleman---father-in-law, to Gen. Wallace  killed at Shiloh. I do not personally know Col. Ransom; but refer the case to Gen. Halleck A. LINCOLN Oct. 11. 1862.

Memorandum:Reappointment of George A. Rowley

This, as I remember, is one of the cases submitted to Gen. McClellan; & from whom I have not yet heard. A. LINCOLN Oct. 11, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If consistent, let the appointment be made. A. LINCOLN Oct. 11. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Submitted to the Secretary of War asking ``what are the facts of this case.''? A LINCOLN October 11. 1862

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. Boyle Washington City, D.C. Louisville, Ky Oct. 12. 4/10 PM 1862
We are very anxious to hear from Gen. Buell's Army. We have had nothing since day-before yesterday. Have you any-thing? A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Major General Curtis Washington D.C. St. Louis, Mo. Oct. 12, 1862
Would the completion of the railroad some distance further in the direction of Springfield, Mo, be of any military advantage to you? Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Major General McClellan Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Oct. 13, 1862.
You remember my speaking to you of what I called your over-cautiousness. Are you not over-cautious when you assume that you can not do what the enemy is constantly doing? Should you not claim to be at least his equal in prowess, and act upon the claim? As I understand, you telegraph Gen. Halleck that you can not subsist your army at Winchester unless the Railroad from Harper's Ferry to that point be put in working order. But the enemy does now subsist his army at Winchester at a distance nearly twice as great from railroad transportation as you would have to do without the railroad last named. He now wagons from Culpepper C.H. which is just about twice as far as you would have to do from Harper's Ferry. He is certainly not more than half as well provided with wagons as you are. I certainly should be pleased for you to have the advantage of the Railroad from Harper's Ferry to Winchester, but it wastes all the remainder of autumn to give it to you; and, in fact ignores the question of time , which can not, and must not be ignored. Again, one of the standard maxims of war, as you know, is ``to operate upon the enemy's communications as much as possible without exposing your own.'' You seem to act as if this applies against you, but can not apply in your favor . Change positions with the enemy, and think you not he would break your communication with Richmond within the next twentyfour hours? You dread his going into Pennsylvania. But if he does so in full force, he gives up his communications to you absolutely, and you have nothing to do but to follow, and ruin him; if he does so with less than full force, fall upon, and beat what is left behind all the easier. Exclusive of the water line, you are now nearer Richmond than the enemy is by the route that you can , and he must take. Why can you not reach there before him, unless you admit that he is more than your equal on a march. His route is the arc of a circle, while yours is the chord. The roads are as good on yours as on his. You know I desired, but did not order, you to cross the Potomac below, instead of above the Shenandoah and Blue Ridge. My idea was that this would at once menace the enemies' communications, which I would seize if he would permit. If he should move Northward I would follow him closely, holding his communications. If he should prevent our seizing his communications, and move towards Richmond, I would press closely to him, fight him if a favorable opportunity should present, and, at least, try to beat him to Richmond on the inside track. I say ``try''; if we never try, we shall never succeed. If he make a stand at Winchester, moving neither North or South, I would fight him there, on the idea that if we can not beat him when he bears the wastage of coming to us, we never can when we bear the wastage of going to him. This proposition is a simple truth, and is too important to be lost sight of for a moment. In coming to us, he tenders us an advantage which we should not waive. We should not so operate as to merely drive him away. As we must beat him somewhere, or fail finally, we can do it, if at all, easier near to us, than far away. If we can not beat the enemy where he now is, we never can, he again being within the entrenchments of Richmond. Recurring to the idea of going to Richmond on the inside track, the facility of supplying from the side away from the enemy is remarkable---as it were, by the different spokes of a wheel extending from the hub towards the rim---and this whether you move directly by the chord, or on the inside arc, hugging the Blue Ridge more closely. The chord-line, as you see, carries you by Aldie, Hay-Market, and Fredericksburg; and you see how turn-pikes, railroads, and finally, the Potomac by Acquia Creek, meet you at all points from Washington. The same, only the lines lengthened a little, if you press closer to the Blue Ridge part of the way. The gaps through the Blue Ridge I understand to be about the following distances from Harper's Ferry, towit: Vestal's five miles; Gregorie's, thirteen, Snicker's eighteen, Ashby's, twenty-eight, Mannassas, thirty-eight, Chester fortyfive, and Thornton's fiftythree. I should think it preferable to take the route nearest the enemy, disabling him to make an important move without your knowledge, and compelling him to keep his forces together, for dread of you. The gaps would enable you to attack if you should wish. For a great part of the way, you would be practically between the enemy and both Washington and Richmond, enabling us to spare you the greatest number of troops from here. When at length, running for Richmond ahead of him enables him to move this way; if he does so, turn and attack him in rear. But I think he should be engaged long before such point is reached. It is all easy if our troops march as well as the enemy; and it is unmanly to say they can not do it. This letter is in no sense an order. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Benjamin F. Butler, George F. Shepley and Others
(Copy). Executive Mansion, Washington, October 14, 1862
Major General Butler, Governor Shepley, & and [ sic ] all having military and naval authority under the United States within the S[t]ate of Louisiana. The bearer of this, Hon. John E. Bouligny, a citizen of Louisiana, goes to that State seeking to have such of the people thereof as desire to avoid the unsatisfactory prospect before them, and to have peace again upon the old terms under the constitution of the United States, to manifest such desire by elections of members to the Congress of the United States particularly, and perhaps a legislature, State officers, and United States Senators friendly to their object. I shall be glad for you and each of you, to aid him and all others acting for this object, as much as possible. In all available ways give the people a chance to express their wishes at these elections. Follow forms of law as far as convenient, but at all events get the expression of the largest number of the people possible. All see how such action will connect with, and affect the proclamation of September 22nd. Of course the men elected should be gentlemen of character, willing to swear support to the constitution, as of old, and known to be above reasonable suspicion of duplicity. Yours very Respectfully A. LINCOLN [Endorsement]  Similar letter to Gen. Grant, Gov. Johnson & others in Tenn. dated Oct. 21. 1862. And to, Steele, Phelps & others in Arkansas. Nov. 18. 1862

To John A. Dahlgren

Capt. Dahlgren may let ``Tad'' have a little gun that he can not hurt himself with. A. LINCOLN Oct. 14, 1862.

Order to Remove Bakeries from the Capitol
Executive Mansion Washington, Oct 14, 1862.
Whereas by a provision of the civil appropriation act approved July 11, 1862, which provision is in the words following towit: ``For the purpose of enabling the commissioner of public buildings and grounds to remove the army bakery from the basement floor of the Capitol, and to repair the damage caused by said bakery, the sum of eight thousand dollars, or so much thereof as may be necessary,'' is appropriated, and the intention of congress is manifested, that said commissioner shall remove said bakery and repair said damage; and whereas said commissioner represents to me that he apprehends some collision or difficulty with the military authorities in attempting to execute his duty in this respect, It is therefore ordered that the military authorities, and all other United States authorities in any way connected with the matter, forbear to hinder, and give all reasonable co-operation to the said commissioner, in the performance of said duty. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Let the appointment be made as recommended by Judge Ballard. Oct. 15. 1862 A. LINCOLN

Memorandum

Thinks there is a vacancy at Ebenezer Church, Navy Yard here, & applies for it. A LINCOLN Oct. 15. 1862

To Lorenzo Thomas
October 15, 1862
The within letter of Gen. McClellan is in answer to one from me in regard to Lieut. John S. Knapp of 17th Regular Infantry, being detailed on recruiting service. Adjt. General, please fix it up. Mr. Nicolay goes to you with the father, and please hear them as to where the Lieut. is to go. A. LINCOLN Oct. 15, 1862

Memorandum:Appointment of William H. Channing
Executive Mansion, Washington, Oct. 16. 1862.
To-day, Mr. Goodloe calls with Rev. Mr. Channing of the Unitarian Church here, (now used as a hospital) to be Chaplain there, or elsewhere here. I believe him entirely worthy, but I have not now an appointment to make. A. LINCOLN

To Francis H. Peirpoint
Gov. Pierpoint Washington City, D.C. Wheeling, Va. Oct. 16, 1862
Your despatch of to-day received. I am very sorry to have offended you. I appointed the Collector, as I thought, on your written recommendation; and the Assessor also with your testimony of worthiness, although I knew you preferred a different man. I will examine to-morrow whether I am mistaken in this. A. LINCOLN.

To Lorenzo Thomas

Let the resignation mentioned, be not accepted. A. LINCOLN Oct. 16, 1862

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, October 17, 1862.
Please make out and send me a commission for David Davis of Illinois, as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, for the eighth judicial circuit. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John F. Callan
Executive Mansion, Washington, My Dear Sir, October 17, 1862.
I have this day received the copy of your ``Military Laws,'' which you had the goodness to send me. Pray accept my cordial thanks for your thoughtful courtesy and believe me Very truly Your Obt. Servt A. LINCOLN J. F. Callan Esq &c &c

To David Davis
Judge David Davis Executive Mansion. Lincoln Illinois. Washington DC. Dear Davis, Oct. [17?], 1862
I send you the enclosed commission which I hope you will accept. I would like to see you on private business this fall. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Oct. 17, 1862.
To-day Gen. Michael Corcoran, calls and asks that Morgan Doheny, now a Lieuten[an]t in the 42nd. New-York vols, may be a Lieutenant in the regular Army. There are special reasons for this, and perhaps the rule might be departed from in so low a place as a 2nd. Lieut. I wish to oblige Gen. Corcoran; the Sec. of War will oblige me if he will find a way to do it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William A. Hammond
Surgeon General. Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, Oct. 18. 1862.
A Baltimore Committee call on me this morning saying that City is full of straggling soldiers half sick, half well, who profess to have been turned from the hospitals with no definite directions where to go. Is this true? Are men turned from the hospitals without knowing where to go. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

Sec. of State please send me a Commission for the appointment of Elwood Evans, according to the within recommendation. Oct. 18. 1862. A. LINCOLN

Executive Order Establishing A Provisional Court in Louisiana
Executive Mansion, Washington City, D.C. October 20, 1862.
The insurrection which has for some time prevailed in several of the State of this Union, including Louisiana, having temporarily subverted and swept away the civil institutions of that State, including the judiciary and the judicial authorities of the Union, so that it has become necessary to hold the State in military occupation, and it being indispensably necessary that there shall be some judicial tribunal existing there capable of administering justice, I have therefore thought it proper to appoint, and I do hereby constitute, a provisional court, which shall be a court of record, for the State of Louisiana, and I do hereby appoint Charles A. Peabody, of New York, to be a provisional judge to hold said court, with authority to hear, try, and determine all causes, civil and criminal, including causes in law, equity, revenue, and admiralty, and particularly all such powers and jurisdiction as belong to the district and circuit courts of the United States, conforming his proceedings so far as possible to the course of proceedings and practice which has been customary in the courts of the United States and Louisiana, his judgment to be final and conclusive. And I do hereby authorize and empower the said judge to make and establish such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the exercise of his jurisdiction, and empower the said judge to appoint a prosecuting attorney, marshal, and clerk of the said court, who shall perform the functions of attorney, marshal, and clerk according to such proceedings and practice as before-mentioned and such rules and regulations as may be made and established by said judge. These appointments are to continue during the pleasure of the President, not extending beyond the military occupation of the city of New Orleans or the restoration of the civil authority in that city and in the State of Louisiana. These officers shall be paid out of the contingent fund of the War Department compensation as follows: The judge, at the rate of $3500 per annum; the prosecuting attorney, including the fees, at the rate of $3000 per annum; the marshal, including the fees, at the rate of $3000 per annum, and the clerk, including the fees, at the rate of $2500 per annum; such compensations to be certified by the Secretary of War. A copy of this order, certified by the Secretary of War and delivered to such judge, shall be deemed and held to be a sufficient commission. ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States .

To John A. McClernand
October 20, 1862
This order, though marked confidential, may be shown by Gen. McClernand, to Governors, and even others, when, in his discretion, he believes so doing to be indispensable to the progress of the expedition. I add that I feel deep interest in the success of the expedition, and desire it to be pushed forward with all possible despatch, consistently with the other parts of the military service. Oct. 20. 1862. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum on Army of the Potomac
War Department Washington City, D. C. [October 20] 1862
A report of the A.P. Oct. 20, 1862, shows, Grand total 	231,997- 	Of them Fit for duty 	144,662 Ab. with leave, 	66,808. 	Remainder of Grand total, pres. sick. pres in arrest & Ab. without leave Defence of W. 	90,613. 60,426 17,173

Memorandum on Confederate Army
[October 20, 1862]
Va. 	21,580 	S. C. 	12,850 Ala. 	8,205 	Ark 	500 La. 	6,263 	Florida 	1650 N C. 	14,189 	Texas 	1250 Ga. 	16,725 	Miss 	3951 Tenn. 	2,400 ------ 89,563

Notice to Aliens
Executive Mansion, Washington, October 20, 1862.
It is hereby ordered that all persons who may have actually been drafted into the militia [military]  service of the United States and who may claim exemption on account of alienage, will make application therefor directly to the Department of State or through their respective ministers or consuls. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let the appointment within recommended, be made. Oct. 20. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant, Andrew Johnson and Others
Executive Mansion, Washington, Oct. 21. 1862.
Major General Grant, Governor Johnson, & all having military, naval, and civil authority under the United States within the State of Tennessee. The bearer of this, Thomas R. Smith, a citizen of Tennessee, goes to that state, seeking to have such of the people thereof as desire to avoid the unsatisfactory prospect before them, and to have peace again upon the old terms under the constitution of the United States, to manifest such desire by elections of members to the Congress of the United States particularly, and perhaps a legislature, State officers, and a United States' Senator, friendly to their object. I shall be glad for you and each of you to aid him, & all others acting for this object, as much as possible. In all available ways give the people a chance to express their wishes at these elections. Follow law, and forms of law as far as convenient; but at all events get the expression of the largest number of the people possible. All see how such action will connect with, and affect the proclamation of Sept. 22nd. Of course the men elected should be gentlemen of character, willing to swear support to the constitution as of old, & known to be above reasonable suspicion of duplicity. Yours very Respectfully A. LINCOLN.

To Charles D. Jameson
Gen. Jameson. Executive Mansion, Upper Stillwater Washington, Maine. Oct. 21. 1862.
How is your health now? Do you or not wish Lieut. R. P. Crawford to be restored to his office? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 21, 1862
I wish the Secretary of War would see Mr. Wilson, and, in view of what he has suffered in the country's cause, find him a place, if possible. A. LINCOLN Oct. 21. 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Please let this appointment be made at once. A. LINCOLN Oct. 21, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 22, 1862
In this case I can say no more than that individuals should not be allowed to impose terms on purchasers of Cotten, beyond those contained in the rules established by the Government. If individuals are doing this, it should be stopped. Will the Sec. of War please look to it. A. LINCOLN Oct. 22. 1862

To Salmon P. Chase
October 23, 1862
I shall be very glad if the Secretary of the Treasury, or any Head of a Department, or Bureau can, and will find employment for Miss. Sommers. A. LINCOLN Oct. 23. 1862.

To Ben Field
Executive Mansion, Washington, Ben. Field, Esq., Astor House: October 23, 1862.
Your letter of 20th received. Think your request cannot safely be granted. A. LINCOLN.

To William A. Hammond
Surgeon General Oct. 23. 1862
Sir Is a hospital chaplain needed at Ebenezer Church & Odd Fellows Hall, Navy Yard, Washington? Please answer on the sheet below. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Francis H. Peirpoint
Hon. F. H. Pierpoint, Executive Mansion, Wheeling, Va.: Washington, October 23, 1862.
Your letter of the 17th just received. When you come to Washington, I shall be pleased to show you the record upon which we acted. Nevertheless answer this, distinctly saying you wish Ross and Ritcher, or any other two you do really want, and they shall be appointed. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of George T. Harris
Executive Mansion, Washington, Oct. 24, 1862.
Bishop McIlvaine calls and asks that George T. Harris, son of G. W. Harris Philada. (Peabody & Co.) be sent West-Point. I promise to try to do this A.L

Memorandum: Appointment of J. H. Hawes

On the strength of this paper I have made the appointment requested A. LINCOLN Oct. 24. 1862

Recommendation for William H. Johnson

The bearer of this, William Johnson (colored), came with me from Illinois; and is a worthy man, as I believe. A. LINCOLN Oct. 24. 1862

To George B. McClellan
Washington City, D.C. Majr. Genl. McClellan Oct. 24 . 1862
I have just read your despatch about sore tongued and fatiegued horses. Will you pardon me for asking what the horses of your army have done since the battle of Antietam that fatigue anything? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Oct. 24, 1862.
Colfax is very anxious for the appointment of Elihu Griffin, of Ia. as an Additional Pay-Master. If at all consistent, let it be done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order Disapproving Death Sentence of Jose Maria Rivas
October 25, 1862.
Waiving the question of jurisdiction in the case, the sentence is not approved, because the accused is not shown to have been within our lines in disguise, or by false pretense, except by hearsay testimony; and because in his admission that he was a ``Spy,'' he may not have understood the technical term, and may have meant no more than that he was a scout of the enemy. He clearly is a prisoner of war. A. LINCOLN.

Order Mitigating Death Sentence of Sely Lewis
October 25, 1862
So far as the sentence in the case relates to the accused as a Spy, it is disapproved, the Commission not having jurisdiction of the offense. The sentence of death is mitigated imprisonment for the term of six months, commencing this day---October 25, 1862. A. LINCOLN.

Order Mitigating Death Sentence of Conrad Zachringer
October 25, 1862.
The prisoners' offense in this case, being to some extent the result of sudden passion, and not of premeditation, the sentence of death is mitigated to imprisonment for one year, commencing on this day, and to be dishonorably discharged the service, with loss of pay and emoluments. A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward
October 25, 1862
Write Canissius that in view of our own aspirants we can not find a place for a Military officer of high rank from abroad. Better send the account of the explosive material to Capt. Dahlgren. A L. Oct. 25. 1862

To John A. Dix
`` Private & confidential '' Major General Dix Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, Oct. 26. 1862.
Your despatch to Mr. Stanton, of which the inclosed is a copy has been handed me by him. It would be dangerous for me now to begin construing, and making specific applications of, the Proclamation. It is obvious to all that I therein intended to give time, and opportunity. Also it is seen I left my self at liberty to exempt parts of states. Without saying more, I shall be very glad if any Congressional District will, in good faith, do as your despatch contemplates. Could you not give me the facts which prompted you to telegraph? Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
Executive Mansion, Washington, Maj. Gen. McClellan Oct. 26. 1862. [11:30 A.M.]
Yours in reply to mine about horses received. Of course you know the facts better than I, still two considerations remain. Stuart's cavalry outmarched ours, having certainly done more marked service on the Peninsula, and everywhere since. Secondly, will not a movement of our army be a relief to the cavalry, compelling the enemy to concentrate, instead of ``foraging'' in squads everywhere? But I am so rejoiced to learn from your despatch to Gen. Halleck, that you begin crossing the river this morning. A. LINCOLN

Reply to Eliza P. Gurney
October 26, 1862
I am glad of this interview, and glad to know that I have your sympathy and prayers. We are indeed going through a great trial---a fiery trial. In the very responsible position in which I happen to be placed, being a humble instrument in the hands of our Heavenly Father, as I am, and as we all are, to work out his great purposes, I have desired that all my works and acts may be according to his will, and that it might be so, I have sought his aid---but if after endeavoring to do my best in the light which he affords me, I find my efforts fail, I must believe that for some purpose unknown to me, He wills it otherwise If I had had my way, this war would never have been commenced; If I had been allowed my way this war would have been ended before this, but we find it still continues; and we must believe that He permits it for some wise purpose of his own, mysterious and unknown to us; and though with our limited understandings we may not be able to comprehend it, yet we cannot but believe, that he who made the world still governs it.

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 26, 1862
This, to my annoyance, shows that at half past two P.M. yesterday, Gen. Rosecrans was still at Corinth! Let him have the Staff officer he asks. A. LINCOLN Oct. 26. 1862.

To George B. McClellan
Executive Mansion, Washington, Majr. Gen. McClellan. Oct. 27. 1862
Yours of yesterday received. Most certainly I intend no injustice to any; and if I have done any, I deeply regret it. To be told after more than five weeks total inaction of the Army, and during which period we had sent to that Army every fresh horse we possibly could, amounting in the whole to 7918 that the cavalry horses were too much fatiegued to move, presented a very cheerless, almost hopeless, prospect for the future; and it may have forced something of impatience into my despatches. If not recruited, and rested then, when could they ever be? I suppose the river is rising, and I am glad to believe you are crossing. A. LINCOLN

To George B. McClellan
Executive Mansion, Washington, October 27, 1862. [3:25 P.M.]
Major-General McClellan: Your dispatch of 3 p.m. to-day, in regard to filling up old regiments with drafted men, is received, and the request therein shall be complied with as far as practicable. And now I ask a distinct answer to the question, Is it your purpose not to go into action again until the men now being drafted in the States are incorporated into the old regiments? A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton and Henry W. Halleck

Sec. of War & Gen. Halleck, please consider within; and if they approve, I am ready to concur. A. LINCOLN Oct. 27. 1862.

To Gideon Welles
[c. October 27, 1862]
Mr. Rogers wishes to be an Asst. Paymaster in the Navy. I know not whether there is a vacancy. The within shows that my son ``Bob'' has a high opinion of him. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
October 28, 1862
Submitted to Majr. Gen. Halleck asking an examination of the record of Col. Alfred T. A. Torbert, to be a Brigadier General, to command the Brigade left without a commander by the death of Gen. Geo. W. Taylor, and in which he Col. Torbert is senior Colonel. A. LINCOLN. Oct. 28. 1862.

Allotment of Supreme Court Judges to Circuits
Executive Mansion, Washington, October 29, 1862.
Two associate justices of the Supreme Court of the United States having been appointed since the last adjournment of said court, and consequently no allotment of the members of said court to the several circuits having been made by them, according to the fifth section of the act of Congress entitled ``An act to amend the judicial system of the United States,'' approved April 29, 1802, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, in virtue of said section, do make an allotment of the justices of said court to the circuits now existing by law, as follows: For the first circuit: Nathan Clifford, associate justice. For the second circuit: Samuel Nelson, associate justice. For the third circuit: Robert C. Grier, associate justice. For the fourth circuit: Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice. For the fifth circuit: James M. Wayne, associate justice. For the sixth circuit: John Catron, associate justice. For the seventh circuit: Noah H. Swayne, associate justice. For the eighth circuit: David Davis, associate justice. For the ninth circuit: Samuel F. Miller, associate justice. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To George B. McClellan
Executive Mansion, Major Genl. McClellan. Washington, Oct. 29. 1862
Your despatches of night before last, yesterday, & last night, all received. I am much pleased with the movement of the Army. When you get entirely across the river let me know. What do you know of the enemy? A. LINCOLN

To Andrew G. Curtin
Gov. Curtin Executive Mansion, Harrisburg. Washington, Oct. 30, 1862.
By some means I have not seen your despatch of the 27th. about order No. 154, till this moment. I now learn, what I knew nothing of before, that the history of the order is as follows, towit. Gen. McClellan telegraphed asking Gen. Halleck to have the order made. Gen. Halleck went to the Sec. of War with it, stating his approval of the plan, the Secretary assented, and Gen. Halleck wrote the order. It was a military question which the Secretary supposed the Generals understood better than he. I wish I could see Gov. Curtin A LINCOLN

To Frederic, Grand Duke of Baden
October 30, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Royal Highness Frederic, Grand Duke of Baden. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Royal Highness was pleased to address to me on the 27th. of last month, announcing the marriage of Her Grand Ducal Highness the Princess Leopoldine of Baden, with His Most Serene Highness the Prince Hermann of Hohenloe Langenburg. I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event, and pray Your Royal Highness to accept my sincere congratulations upon the occasion, together with the assurances of my highest consideration. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, October 30, 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 30, 1862
Except an outside word now and then recently I know nothing of this recruiting for the regulars, from the volunteer regiments. How is this? I have heard a good deal of dissatisfaction about it before seeing this letter. A. LINCOLN Oct. 30, 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton

I am entirely willing to accept the Regiment proposed, if the Sec. of War & Gov: of New-York concur. A. LINCOLN Oct. 30. 1862

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Andrew Johnson Nashville, Tenn. via Louisville, Ky Oct. 31. 1862
Yours of the 29th. received. I shall take it to Gen. Halleck; but I already know it will be very inconvenient to take Gen. Morgan's command from where it now is. I am glad to hear you speak hopefully for Tennessee. I sincerely hope Rosecrans may find it possible to do something for her. ``David Nelson'' son of the M.C. of your state, regrets his father's final defection, and asks me for a situation. Do you know him? Could he be of service to you, or to Tennessee, in any capacity in which I could send him?  A. LINCOLN

Memorandum on Furloughs
Nov., 1862.
The Army is constantly depleted by company officers who give their men leave of absence in the very face of the enemy, and on the eve of an engagement, which is almost as bad as desertion. At this very moment there are between seventy and one hundred thousand men absent on furlough from the Army of the Potomac. The army, like the nation, has become demoralized by the idea that the war is to be ended, the nation united, and peace restored, by strategy , and not by hard desperate fighting. Why, then, should not the soldiers have furloughs?

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Whom it may concern Washington, Nov. 1, 1862
Capt. Derrickson, with his company, has been, for some time keeping guard at my residence, now at the Soldiers Retreat. He, and his Company are very agreeable to me; and while it is deemed proper for any guard to remain, none would be more satisfactory to me than Capt. D. and his company. A. LINCOLN

To William P. Dole
November 3, 1862
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, please see the bearer of this, Mr. Pierce, who is well vouched to me, and talk with him and ascertain if there is any service in the Indian department, to which you can put him, with advantage to the public. A. LINCOLN Nov. 3, 1862

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion, Washington, [November 5, 1862].
``By direction of the President, it is ordered that Major General McClellan be relieved from the command of the Army of the Potomac; and that Major General Burnside take the command of that Army. Also, that Major General Hunter take command of the Corps in said Army, which is now commanded by General Burnside. That Major General Fitz-John Porter be relieved from the command of the corps he now commands in said Army; and that Major General Hooker take command of said corps.'' The General-in-Chief, is authorized, in discretion, to issue an order substantially as the above, forthwith, or so soon as he may deem proper. A. LINCOLN

To William R. Morrison
Col. William R. Morrison Executive Mansion, Waterloo, Ills.  Washington, Nov. 5. 1862
Your letter of Sept. 23rd. is this moment received. While your words of kindness are very grateful, your suspicions that I intend you injustice are very painful to me. I assure you such suspicions are groundless. I can not even conjecture what juniors of yours, you suppose I contemplate promoting over you. True, seniority has not been my rule, in this connection; but in considering military merit, it seems to me the world has abundant evidence that I discard politics. A. LINCOLN

To Moses F. Odell
Hon. M. F. Odell, Executive Mansion, Brooklyn, N.Y. Washington, Nov. 5. 1862.
You are re-elected. I wish to see you at once. Will you come? Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Executive Mansion, Washington, Maj. Genl. Butler, Nov. 6th '62.
My dear Sir: This morning the Secretary of the Treasury read to me a letter of yours to him. He read to me at the same time one from Mr. Denison  (I think), at New Orleans. I was much interested by the information in one of them that some of the planters were making arrangements with their negroes to pay them wages. Please write to me to what extent, so far as you know, this is being done. Also what, if anything, is being done by Mr. Bouligny, or others, about electing members of Congress. I am anxious to hear on both these points. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Halleck

The within just handed to me, with such account of it's source as to induce me to believe it is reliable. A. LINCOLN Nov. 6. 1862.

Unaddressed Note
[c. November 6, 1862?]
I am informed as a certainty, that a lady coming from Culpeper C.H. to Warrenton, met Walker's  Division going south, who said they were going to Petersburg. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If consistent with the public service I shall be glad for Mr. Edwards to be obliged as he asks within. A. LINCOLN Nov. 6. 1862

To Gideon Welles
Executive Mansion, Washington, [November 6], 186
First idea Purchase one of those now being constructed for our enemies---01 some other of not let [ sic ] less speed or power, deliverable at a given point fully equipped. Then take possession. Second idea Charter for twelve months with the previlege of purchasing and taking possession at any point for a certain sum within that period. Then advertise for some Port in the vicinity of the intended cruising ground. Charter also another on the same conditions, dispatch her with fuel, stores and the armament to an unfrequented harbor, under the direction of a reliable man, there to await orders. After getting information as we can with the first named steamer join the tender and arm the cruiser, Pursue the enemy, exhibit your authority only when absolute necessity requires it [Endorsement] I was asked to inquire what the Govt. would pay, on delivery, for the Capture of a ``Secesh vessel'' I could not answer & so refer the question to the Sec. of the Navy. A. LINCOLN Nov. 6. 1862.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, November 7, 1862.
Please send me the latest ``Picayune'' and ``True Delta'' you can lay your hands upon. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To William W. Lowe
Col. W. W. Lowe Executive Mansion, Fort-Henry, Tenn. Washington, Nov. 7, 1862.
Yours of yesterday received. Gov. Johnson, Mr. Ethridge  & others are looking after the very thing you telegraph about. A. LINCOLN.

Order to Alfred W. Ellet
Executive Mansion Ordered. Nov. 7. 1862.
That Brigadier General Ellett report to Rear Admiral Porter for instructions, and act under his direction until otherwise ordered by the War Department. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Hon. Sec. of Treasury Washington, Nov. 8, 1862.
My dear Sir: I now understand that a Commission has been sent to some gentleman as Collector for the 13th District of New York, in place of Mr. Masten whom I appointed at the request of Hon. Mr. Steele. If I have signed a Commission superseding him I have done it inadvertently, not remembering having done so at all, and not having known any just reason for doing so. Having appointed Mr. Masten deliberately, I do not wish to revoke such appointment without a sufficient reason; and, of course, I do not wish to be made to appear as having prevaricated. If Mr. Masten has tendered a sufficient bond, I wish him to have the office. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of Eli D. Terwilliger
[c. November 8, 1862]
This note confounds me utterly. I am sure I have never been conscious that I was superseding Mr. Steele's man.

Order Concerning James W. Walters
[c. November 8, 1862]
I suppose the case within was, at least technically, a desertion. In consideration of his after conduct, let the boy, James W. Walters, be pardoned. A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for Mr. Calvert
November 8, 1862
I can very cheerfully say that Mr. Calvert has for some time been employed at the White-House, and has appeared to be a very faithful, worthy and gentlemanly young man. A. LINCOLN Nov. 8. 1862.

To William H. Seward

Will be glad to see Col. Hamilton, & his friend, whenever it may be convenient for them A. LINCOLN Nov. 8. 1862

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Washington, Boston, Mass. Nov. 9. 1862
Mrs. Cuthbert & Aunt Mary want to move to the White House, because it has grown so cold at Soldiers Home. Shall they? A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Manison Dear Sir Washington, D.C. Nov. 10. 1862
I am not quite ready to appoint a Judge for the District of Indiana; and, therefore I will thank you to take proper measures for having court held by a neighboring Judge. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John Pope
Major General Pope Executive Mansion, St. Paul, Minnesota Washington, Nov. 10. 1862.
Your despatch giving the names of three hundred Indians condemned to death, is received. Please forward, as soon as possible, the full and complete record of these convictions. And if the record does not fully indicate the more guilty and influential, of the culprits, please have a careful statement made on these points and forwarded to me. Send all by mail. A. LINCOLN.

To Carl Schurz
``Private & confidential'' Gen. Schurz. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Nov. 10. 1862.
Yours of the 8th. was, to-day, read to me by Mrs. S[churz]. We have lost the elections; and it is natural that each of us will believe, and say, it has been because his peculiar views was not made sufficiently prominent. I think I know what it was, but I may be mistaken. Three main causes told the whole story. 1. The democrats were left in a majority by our friends going to the war. 2. The democrats observed this & determined to re-instate themselves in power, and 3. Our newspaper's, by vilifying and disparaging the administration, furnished them all the weapons to do it with. Certainly, the ill-success of the war had much to do with this. You give a different set of reasons. If you had not made the following statements, I should not have suspected them to be true. ``The defeat of the administration is the administrations own fault.'' (opinion) ``It admitted its professed opponents to its counsels'' (Asserted as a fact) ``It placed the Army, now a great power in this Republic, into the hands of its' enemys'' (Asserted as a fact) ``In all personal questions, to be hostile to the party of the Government, seemed, to be a title to consideration.'' (Asserted as a fact) ``If to forget the great rule, that if you are true to your friends, your friends will be true to you, and that you make your enemies stronger by placing them upon an equality with your friends.'' ``Is it surprising that the opponents of the administration should have got into their hands the government of the principal states, after they have had for a long time the principal management of the war, the great business of the national government.'' I can not dispute about the matter of opinion. On the the [ sic ] three matters (stated as facts) I shall be glad to have your evidence upon them when I shall meet you. The plain facts, as they appear to me, are these. The administration came into power, very largely in a minority of the popular vote. Notwithstanding this, it distributed to it's party friends as nearly all the civil patronage as any administration ever did. The war came. The administration could not even start in this, without assistance outside of it's party. It was mere nonsense to suppose a minority could put down a majority in rebellion. Mr. Schurz (now Gen. Schurz) was about here then & I do not recollect that he then considered all who were not republicans, were enemies of the government, and that none of them must be appointed to to [ sic ] military positions. He will correct me if I am mistaken. It so happened that very few of our friends had a military education or were of the profession of arms. It would have been a question whether the war should be conducted on military knowledge, or on political affinity, only that our own friends (I think Mr. Schurz included) seemed to think that such a question was inadmissable. Accordingly I have scarcely appointed a democrat to a command, who was not urged by many republicans and opposed by none. It was so as to McClellan. He was first brought forward by the Republican Governor of Ohio, & claimed, and contended for at the same time by the Republican Governor of Pennsylvania. I received recommendations from the republican delegations in congress, and I believe every one of them recommended a majority of democrats. But, after all many Republicans were appointed; and I mean no disparagement to them when I say I do not see that their superiority of success has been so marked as to throw great suspicion on the good faith of those who are not Republicans. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To David G. Farragut
Executive Mansion, Comodore Farragut: Washington, Nov. 11, 1862.
Dear Sir: This will introduce Major General Banks. He is in command of a considerable land-force for operating in the South; and I shall be glad for you to co-operate with him, and give him such assistance as you can consistently with your orders from the Navy Department. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck

Submitted to Gen. Halleck, asking as favorable consideration as may be consistent A. LINCOLN Nov. 12. 1862.

Order Concerning Blockade
Executive Mansion Ordered: Washington Nov. 12th, 1862
1st. That clearances issued by the Treasury Department for vessels or merchandize bound for the port of Norfolk for the military necessities of the Department, certified by the military Commandant of Fort Monroe, shall be allowed to enter said port. 2nd. That vessels and domestic produce from Norfolk permitted by the military Commandant at Fort Monroe for the military purpose of his command, shall on his permit be allowed to pass from said port to its destination to any port not blockaded by the United States ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order Concerning the Confiscation Act
Executive Mansion, Ordered by the President November 13. 1862.
That the Attorney General be charged with the superintendence & direction of all proceedings to be had under the Act of Congress of the 17th of July 1862 entitled ``an Act to suppress Insurrection, to punish Treason and Rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of Rebels, and for other purposes,'' in so far as may concern the seizure, prosecution and condemnation of the estate, property and effects of Rebels and Traitors as mentioned and provided for in the fifth, sixth and seventh sections of the said Act of Congress. And the Attorney General is authorised and required to give to the Attornies and Marshals of the United States, such instructions and directions as he may find needful and convenient touching all such seizures, prosecutions and condemnations. And moreover, to authorise all such Attornies and Marshals, whenever there may be reasonable ground to fear any forcible resistance to them, in the discharge of their respective duties, in this behalf, to call upon any military officer, in command of the forces of the United States, to give to them such aid, protection and support as may be necessary to enable them safely and efficiently to discharge their respective duties. And all such commanding officers are required, promptly, to obey such call, and to render the necessary service, as far as may be in their power consistently with their other duties. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Francis P. Blair, Jr.
Hon. F. P. Blair, Jr. Washington City, D.C. St. Louis, Mo. Nov. 14. 1862
Please telegraph me the result of the election in Missouri, on Congress and Legislature. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Andrew Johnson Washington City, D.C. Nashville, Tenn. Nov. 14th. 1862
Your despatch of the 4th. about returning troops from Western Virginia to Tennessee, is just received, and I have been to Gen. Halleck with it. He says an order has already been made by which those troops have already moved, or soon will move, to Tennessee. A. LINCOLN.

To Hamilton R. Gamble

I have not yet been able to get the document, but have the Sec. of War hunting for it. A. LINCOLN Nov. 15, 1862

Order for Sabbath Observance
Executive Mansion, Washington, November 15, 1862.
The President, Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, desires and enjoins the orderly observance of the Sabbath by the officers and men in the military and naval service. The importance for man and beast of the prescribed weekly rest, the sacred rights of Christian soldiers and sailors, a becoming deference to the best sentiment of a Christian people, and a due regard for the Divine will, demand that Sunday labor in the Army and Navy be reduced to the measure of strict necessity. The discipline and character of the national forces should not suffer, nor the cause they defend be imperiled, by the profanation of the day or name of the Most High. ``At this time of public distress''---adopting the words of Washington in 1776---``men may find enough to do in the service of God and their country without abandoning themselves to vice and immorality.'' The first General Order issued by the Father of his Country after the Declaration of Independence,  indicates the spirit in which our institutions were founded and should ever be defended: `` The General hopes and trusts that every officer and man will endeavor to live and act as becomes a Christian soldier defending the dearest rights and liberties of his country .'' ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Gideon Welles
November 15, 1862
The Vanderbilt is at sea. If we could get one, two or three more, heavy, swift steamers out, on something like the same plan, I think it would be a good thing. Sec. of Navy, please see Mr. Halstead. A. LINCOLN.

To Francis P. Blair, Jr.
``Cypher'' Executive Mansion Hon. F.P.Blair, Jr. Washington, Nov. 17. 1862
Your brother says you are solicitous to be ordered to join Gen. McClernand. I suppose you are ordered to St. Helena. This means that you are to form part of McClernand's expedition, as it moves down the river; and he---McC.---is so informed. I will see Gen. Halleck as to whether the additional forces you mention can go with you. A. LINCOLN.

To John D. Defrees

Will Mr. Defrees please call and see me? A. LINCOLN Nov. 17. 1862

To Robert A. Maxwell
Robert A. Maxwell Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, Pa. Nov. 17. 1862.
Your despatch of to-day received. I do not at all understand it. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
``Cypher'' Major Gen. Dix Washington, DC. Fort-Monroe, Va. Nov. 18 1862
Please give me your best opinion, as to the number of the enemy now at Richmond, and also at Petersburg. A. LINCOLN

To Caleb B. Smith

Let the appointment be made, as within recommend[ed]. Nov. 18. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Frederick Steele, John S. Phelps and Others
Executive Mansion, Washington, Nov. 18. 1862.
Gen. Steele, Governor Phelps, and all having military and Naval authority, under the United States, within the State of Arkansas. Mr. William M. McPherson goes to Arkansas, seeking to have such of the people thereof as desire to avoid the unsatisfactory prospect before them, and to have peace again upon the old terms under the Constitution of the United States, to manifest such desire by elections of members to the Congress of the United States particularly, and perhaps a legislature, State officers, and United States Senators friendly to their object. I shall be glad for you and each of you to aid him and all others acting for this object, as much as possible. In all available ways give the people a chance to express their wishes at these elections. Follow law & forms of law as far as convenient, but at all events get the expression of the largest number of the people possible. All see how such action will connect with and affect the proclamation of September 22d. Of course the men elected should be gentlemen of character, willing to swear support to the Constitution, as of old, and known to be above reasonable suspicion of duplicity. Yours very Respectfully A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Let a pardon be made out in this case for Gov. Gamble to take to Missouri with him. A. LINCOLN Nov. 19. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please make such response to this as may seem proper. Nov. 19. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Samuel Treat
PRIVATE Judge S. Treat Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Nov. 19, 1862.
My dear Sir Your very patriotic and judicious letter, addressed to Judge Davis, in relation to the Mississippi, has been left with me by him for perusal. You do not estimate the value of the object you press, more highly than it is estimated here. It is now the object of particular attention. It has not been neglected, as you seem to think, because the West was divided into different military Departments. The cause is much deeper. The country will not allow us to send our whole Western force down the Mississippi, while the enemy sacks Louisville and Cincinnati. Possibly it would be better if the country would allow this, but it will not. I confidently believed, last September that we could end the war by allowing the enemy to go to Harrisburg and Philadelphia, only that we could not keep down mutiny, and utter demoralization among the Pennsylvanians. And this, though very unhandy sometimes, is not at all strange. I presume if an army was starting to-day for New-Orleans, and you confidently believed that St. Louis would be sacked in consequence, you would be in favor of stopping such army. We are compelled to watch all these things. With great respect Your Obt. Servt A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
November 20, 1862
Your letter of the 17th in relation to the Eastern Shore of Virginia. Omitting to class that part of the country, in the proclamation of July, as being loyal, was a mere oversight. . . .

To George Robertson
PRIVATE Hon. George Robertson Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Nov. 20. 1862.
Your despatch of yesterday is just received. I believe you are acquainted with the American Classics, (if there be such) and probably remember a speech of Patrick Henry, in which he represented a certain character in the, revolutionary times, as totally disregarding all questions of country, and ``hoarsely bawling, beef! beef!! beef!!!''  Do you not know that I may as well surrender this contest, directly, as to make any order, the obvious purpose of which would be to return fugitive slaves? Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

Order Prohibiting Export of Arms and Munitions
Executive Mansion, Washington City, D.C., Ordered, November 21, 1862.
That no arms, ammunition, or munitions of war be cleared or allowed to be exported from the United States until further order. That any clearances for arms, ammunition, or munitions of war issued heretofore by the Treasury Department be vacated, if the articles have not passed without the United States, and the articles stopped. That the Secretary of War hold possession of the arms, &c., recently seized by his order at Rouse's Point, bound for Canada. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Remarks to Union Kentuckians
November 21, 1862
On Friday President Lincoln, in the course of an interview with unconditional Union Kentuckians, discussed at length the question of Emancipation. He said that he would rather die than take back a word of the Proclamation of Freedom, and he dwelt upon the advantages to the Border States of his scheme for the gradual abolishment of Slavery, which he urged them to bring fairly before their people. They assured him that it should be done. They propose to start two Emancipation journals in Kentucky to counteract the influence of the Louisville papers, and when the proper time comes, Congressman Casey, Judge Williams, and perhaps Joseph Holt also will canvass the State. They are confident of achieving a success equal to that of the Missouri Emancipationists after they have once fairly got the question before the people. Mr. Lincoln also expressed his determination to enforce vigorous measures to rid the State of Rebel sympathizers, and for that purpose a new Provost-Marshal General who has his heart in the work will be appointed.

To George F. Shepley
Hon G.F. Shepley Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, Nov. 21. 1862.
Dr. Kennedy, bearer of this, has some apprehension that Federal officers, not citizens of Louisiana, may be set up as candidates for Congress in that State. In my view, there could be no possible object in such an election. We do not particularly need members of congress from there to enable us to get along with legislation here. What we do want is the conclusive evidence that respectable citizens of Louisiana, are willing to be members of congress & to swear support to the constitution; and that other respectable citizens there are willing to vote for them and send them. To send a parcel of Northern men here, as representatives, elected as would be understood, (and perhaps really so,) at the point of the bayonet, would be disgusting and outrageous; and were I a member of congress here I would vote against admitting any such man to a seat. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To George F. Shepley
Hon. G.F. Shepley Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Nov. 21. 1862.
Your letter of the 6th. Inst. to the Secretary of War has been placed in my hands; and I am annoyed to learn from it that, at it's date, nothing had been done about congressional elections. On the 14th. of October I addressed a letter to Gen. Butler, yourself and others upon this very subject, sending it by Hon. Mr. Bouligny. I now regret the necessity of inferring that you had not seen this letter up to the 6th. Inst. I inclose you a copy of it, and also a copy of another addressed to yourself this morning, upon the same general subject, and placed in the hands of Dr. Kennedy. I ask attention to both. I wish elections for Congressmen to take place in Louisiana; but I wish it to be a movement of the people of the Districts, and not a movement of our military and quasi-military, authorities there. I merely wish our authorities to give the people a chance---to protect them against secession interference. Of course the election can not be according to strict law---by state law, there is, I suppose, no election day, before January; and the regular election officers will not act, in many cases, if in any. These knots must be cut, the main object being to get an expression of the people. If they would fix a day and a way, for themselves, all the better; but if they stand idle not seeming to know what to do, do you fix these things for them by proclamation. And do not waste a day about it; but, fix the election day early enough that we can hear the result here by the first of January. Fix a day for an election in all the Districts, and have it held in as many places as you can. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, My dear General Banks Washington, Nov. 22, 1862.
Early last week you left me in high hope with your assurance that you would be off with your expedition at the end of that week, or early in this. It is now the end of this, and I have just been overwhelmed and confounded with the sight of a requisition made by you, which, I am assured, can not be filled, and got off within an hour short of two months! I inclose you a copy of the requisition, in some hope that it is not genuine---that you have never seen it. My dear General, this expanding, and piling up of impedimenta , has been, so far, almost our ruin, and will be our final ruin if it is not abandoned. If you had the articles of this requisition upon the wharf, with the necessary animals to make them of any use, and forage for the animals, you could not get vessels together in two weeks to carry the whole, to say nothing of your twenty thousand men; and, having the vessels, you could not put the cargoes aboard in two weeks more. And, after all, where you are going, you have no use for them. When you parted with me, you had no such idea in your mind. I know you had not, or you could not have expected to be off so soon as you said. You must get back to something like the plan you had then, or your expedition is a failure before you start. You must be off before Congress meets. You would be better off any where, and especially where you are going, for not having a thousand wagons, doing nothing but hauling forage to feed the animals that draw them, and taking at least two thousand men to care for the wagons and animals, who otherwise might be two thousand good soldiers. Now dear General, do not think this is an ill-natured letter---it is the very reverse. The simple publication of this requisition would ruin you. Very truly your friend A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 22, 1862
I know not whether the within is admissable. If it is, I would, both on account of Gen. Banks and Col. Ullmann, be glad for it to be done. Will the Sec. of War, and Gen. Halleck please consider it. Nov. 22. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To William L. Vance
Mr. W. L. Vance Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Nov. 22, 1862.
You tell me you have in your hands some two hundred and seventy thousand dollars of ``Confederate Scrip'' which was forced upon Union men of Kentucky, in exchange for supplies, by the rebels during their late raid into that State; and you wish government authority for you to take this Scrip into the Cotten-States, exchange it for cotten if found practicable, and to bring the cotten out. While I have felt great anxiety to oblige you, and your friends, in this matter, I feel constrained to decline it. It would come to something, or it would come to nothing---that is, you would get cotten for the Scrip, or you would not. If you should get none, the effort would have been a useless failure. If you should get any , to precisely that extent, this government would have aided in giving currency to this Scrip---that is, men seeing that the Scrip would bring cotten, would gladly give produce for the scrip; and hence a scramble for it, as for gold would ensue. If your two hundred and seventy thousand dollars, was to be the sole instance, I would gladly risk it. But it would not be the beginning, or, at most, only the beginning. Having begun, I could not stop. What I had done for some, I must do for others. All that sort of Scrip now in Kentucky, and much not yet in Kentucky, would find it's way into Union-hands and be presented under the rule. We all know how easily oaths are furnished, when required, in transactions of this sort. And the thing would become even broader yet. Men who have been robbed out-right by the rebels, without even receiving scrip would appeal, (and with quite as equitable a case) to be permitted a means of indemnity, by leave to go in and bring out cotten. This would run till at length I should have to abandon all restraint, or put a stop to what it is now much easier to not begin.

To George S. Boutwell
Comr. of Internal Revenue Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Nov. 24, 1862.
It was by mere over-sight that the Eastern Shore counties of Virginia, and some other counties of Hon. Mr. Segar's District, were not classed as loyal in the proclamation of July. I intend to set this right the first convenient opportunity. Meantime, please consult with Mr. Segar, and act with his District, in regard to the Revenue, as with a loyal District. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase

If Secretary of Treasury has written his part of message, please send over. A. LINCOLN. November 24, 1862.

To John J. Key
Major John J. Key Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, Nov. 24, 1862
A bundle of letters including one from yourself, was, early last week, handed me by Gen. Halleck, as I understood, at your request. I sincerely sympathise with you in the death of your brave and noble son.  In regard to my dismissal of yourself from the military service, it seems to me you misunderstand me. I did not charge, or intend to charge you with disloyalty. I had been brought to fear that there was a class of officers in the army, not very inconsiderable in numbers, who were playing a game to not beat the enemy when they could, on some peculiar notion as to the proper way of saving the Union; and when you were proved to me, in your own presence, to have avowed yourself in favor of that ``game,'' and did not attempt to controvert the proof, I dismissed you as an example and a warning to that supposed class. I bear you no ill will; and I regret that I could not have the example without wounding you personally. But can I now, in view of the public interest, restore you to the service, by which the army would understand that I indorse and approve that game myself? If there was any doubt of your having made the avowal, the case would be different. But when it was proved to me, in your presence, you did not deny or attempt to deny it, but confirmed it in my mind, by attempting to sustain the position by argument. I am really sorry for the pain the case gives you, but I do not see how, consistently with duty, I can change it. Yours, &c. A. LINCOLN

To David D. Porter
Admiral Porter Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, Nov. 24, 1862.
Allow me to introduce my friend, Hon. Samuel Galloway, of Ohio. Any attention or kindness you can give him, without interference with the public interest, will be appreciated by me. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Carl Schurz
Gen. Carl Schurz Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Nov. 24. 1862.
I have just received, and read, your letter of the 20th. The purport of it is that we lost the late elections, and the administration is failing, because the war is unsuccessful; and that I must not flatter myself that I am not justly to blame for it. I certainly know that if the war fails, the administration fails, and that I will be blamed for it, whether I deserve it or not. And I ought to be blamed, if I could do better. You think I could do better; therefore you blame me already. I think I could not do better; therefore I blame you for blaming me. I understand you now to be willing to accept the help of men, who are not republicans, provided they have ``heart in it.'' Agreed. I want no others. But who is to be the judge of hearts, or of ``heart in it''? If I must discard my own judgment, and take yours, I must also take that of others; and by the time I should reject all I should be advised to reject, I should have none left, republicans, or others---not even yourself. For, be assured, my dear sir, there are men who have ``heart in it'' that think you are performing your part as poorly as you think I am performing mine. I certainly have been dissatisfied with the slowness of Buell and McClellan; but before I relieved them I had great fears I should not find successors to them, who would do better; and I am sorry to add, that I have seen little since to relieve those fears. I do not clearly see the prospect of any more rapid movements. I fear we shall at last find out that the difficulty is in our case, rather than in particular generals. I wish to disparage no one---certainly not those who sympathize with me; but I must say I need success more than I need sympathy, and that I have not seen the so much greater evidence of getting success from my sympathizers, than from those who are denounced as the contrary. It does seem to me that in the field the two classes have been very much alike, in what they have done, and what they have failed to do. In sealing their faith with their blood, Baker, an[d] Lyon, and Bohlen, and Richardson, republicans, did all that men could do; but did they any more than Kearney, and Stevens, and Reno, and Mansfield, none of whom were republicans, and some, at least of whom, have been bitterly, and repeatedly, denounced to me as secession sympathizers?  I will not perform the ungrateful task of comparing cases of failure. In answer to your question ``Has it not been publicly stated in the newspapers, and apparantly proved as a fact, that from the commencement of the war, the enemy was continually supplied with information by some of the confidential subordinates of as important an officer as Adjutant General Thomas?'' I must say ``no'' so far as my knowledge extends. And I add that if you can give any tangible evidence upon that subject, I will thank you to come to the City and do so. Very truly Your friend A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside. Executive Mansion, Washington, Falmouth, Va. Nov. 25. 1862. [11:30 A.M.]
If I should be in a Boat off Aquia-Creek, at dark to-morrow (wednesday) evening, could you, without inconvenience, meet me & pass an hour or two with me? A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, November 25, 1862.
Dear Sir: Please remember to confer with the Secretary of the Interior, so as to clear the discrepancy as to amounts derived from sale of public lands. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Mrs. Abraham H. Hoge
Mrs. A. H. Hoge Executive Mansion, Dear Madam Washington, Nov. 25. 1862.
Your note of this morning is just received. If I can learn that your son has a commission from the Governor, enabling me to give him a staff appointment, and then any Brigadier General entitled to another staff officer, will ask to have your son for the place, I will appoint him. Without the first condition, it is not lawful for me to appoint him; and without the second, it would obviously be improper. Preserve this note & send it to me with any papers you may send, as evidence on the points named. Yours &c. A. LINCOLN

To George Robertson
Private Executive Mansion,
Hon. George Robertson, Washington, Nov. 26, 1862.
My dear Sir: A few days since I had a despatch from you which I did not answer. If I were to be wounded personally, I think I would not shun it. But it is the life of the nation. I now understand the trouble is with Col. Utley; that he has five slaves in his camp, four of whom belong to rebels, and one belonging to you. If this be true, convey yours to Col. Utley, so that he can make him free, and I will pay you any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars. Yours, &c. A. LINCOLN

To George Robertson
Hon. George Robertson Executive Mansion, Lexington, Ky. Washington, Nov. 26. 1862.
I mail you a short letter to-day . A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Steamer Baltimore Major General Halleck Off Acquia Creek, Va Sir: Nov. 27. 1862
I have just had a long conference with Gen. Burnside. He believes that Gen. Lees whole army, or nearly the whole of it is in front of him, at and near Fredericksburg. Gen. B. says he could take into battle now any day, about, one hundred and ten thousand men, that his army is in good spirit, good condition, good moral, and that in all respects he is satisfied with officers and men; that he does not want more men with him, because he could not handle them to advantage; that he thinks he can cross the river in face of the enemy and drive him away, but that, to use his own expression, it is somewhat risky. I wish the case to stand more favorable than this in two respects. First, I wish his crossing of the river to be nearly free from risk; and secondly, I wish the enemy to be prevented from falling back, accumulating strength as he goes, into his intrenchments at Richmond. I therefore propose that Gen. B. shall not move immediately; that we accumulate a force on the South bank of the Rappahanock---at, say, Port-Royal, under protection of one or two gun-boats, as nearly up to twentyfive thousand strong as we can. At the same time another force of about the same strength as high up the Pamunkey, as can be protected by gunboats. These being ready, let all three forces move simultaneously, Gen. B.'s force in it's attempt to cross the river, the Rappahanock force moving directly up the South side of the river to his assistance, and ready, if found admissable, to deflect off to the turnpike bridge over the Mattapony in the direction of Richmond. The Pamunkey force to move as rapidly as possible up the North side of the Pamunkey, holding all the bridges, and especially the turnpike bridge immediately North of Hanover C.H; hurry North, and seize and hold the Mattapony bridge before mentioned, and also, if possible, press higher up the streams and destroy the railroad bridges. Then, if Gen. B. succeeds in driving the enemy from Fredericksburg, he the enemy no longer has the road to Richmond, but we have it and can march into the city. Or, possibly, having forced the enemy from his line, we could move upon, and destroy his army. Gen. B.'s main army would have the same line of supply and retreat as he has now provided; the Rappahanock force would have that river for supply, and gun-boats to fall back upon; and the Pamunkey force would have that river for supply, and a line between the two rivers---Pamunkey & Mattapony---along which to fall back upon it's gun-boats. I think the plan promises the best results, with the least hazzard, of any now conceiveable. Note--- The above plan, proposed by me, was rejected by Gen. Halleck & Gen. Burnside, on the ground that we could not raise and put in position, the Pamunkey force without too much waste of time A.L.

To Edward Bates
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Attorney General Nov. 29, 1862.
My dear Sir: Few things perplex me more than this question between Gov. Gamble, and the War Department, as to whether the peculiar force organized by the former in Missouri are ``State troops,'' or ``United States troops.'' Now, this is either an immaterial, or a mischievous question. First, if no more is desired than to have it settled what name the forces is to be called by, it is immaterial. Secondly, if it is desired for more than the fixing a name, it can only be to get a position from which to draw practical inferences, then it is mischievous. Instead of settling one dispute by deciding the question, I should merely furnish a nest full of eggs for hatching new disputes. I believe the force is not strictly either ``State troops'' or ``United States troops.'' It is of mixed character. I therefore think it is safer when a practical question arises, to decide that question directly, and not indirectly, by deciding a general abstraction supposed to include it, and also including a great deal more. Without dispute, Gov. Gamble appoints the officers of this force, and fills vacancies when they occur. The question now practically in dispute is ``Can Gov. Gamble make a vacancy, by removing an officer, or accepting a resignation? Now, while it is proper that this question shall be settled, I do not perceive why either Gov. Gamble, or the government here, should care which way it is settled. I am perplexed with it only because there seems to be pertinacity about it. It seems to me that it might be either way without injury to the service; or that the offer of the Secretary of War to let Gov. Gamble make vacancies, and he, the Secretary, to ratify the making of them, ought to be satisfactory.

To Henry S. Lane and Joseph A. Wright
[c. November 29, 1862]
Will Senators Lane and Wright, of Indiana, please report to me on this case A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
``Cypher'' Major General Curtis Washington, St. Louis, Mo. Nov. 30. 1862
Frank Blair wants Manter's 32nd. Curley's 27th. Boyd's 24th. and the 9th. & 10th. Cavalry, to go with him down the river. I understand it is with you to decide whether he shall have them; and if so, and if also it is consistent with the public service, you will oblige me a good deal by letting him have them. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning J. Wesley Greene
[December, 1862?]
After inquiry, I believe it is true that a man calling himself J. Wesley Greene, and professing to reside at Pittsburg, Pa., called on the President some time in November, and stated to him that he, Greene, had had two interviews with Jeff. Davis, at Richmond, Va., on the last day of October; and also related certain statements which he said Davis had made to him upon the occasion. The President became satisfied that Greene had not seen Davis at all, and that the whole thing was a very shallow attempt at humbuggery. Jeff. Davis can redeem Greene's character if he will, by verifying his statement.

Annual Message to Congress
December 1, 1862
Fellow-citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives: Since your last annual assembling another year of health and bountiful harvests has passed. And while it has not pleased the Almighty to bless us with a return of peace, we can but press on, guided by the best light He gives us, trusting that in His own good time, and wise way, all will yet be well. The correspondence touching foreign affairs which has taken place during the last year is herewith submitted, in virtual compliance with a request to that effect, made by the House of Representatives near the close of the last session of Congress.  If the condition of our relations with other nations is less gratifying than it has usually been at former periods, it is certainly more satisfactory than a nation so unhappily distracted as we are, might reasonably have apprehended. In the month of June last there were some grounds to expect that the maritime powers which, at the beginning of our domestic difficulties, so unwisely and unnecessarily, as we think, recognized the insurgents as a belligerent, would soon recede from that position,  which has proved only less injurious to themselves, than to our own country. But the temporary reverses which afterwards befell the national arms, and which were exaggerated by our own disloyal citizens abroad have hitherto delayed that act of simple justice.  The civil war, which has so radically changed for the moment, the occupations and habits of the American people, has necessarily disturbed the social condition, and affected very deeply the prosperity of the nations with which we have carried on a commerce that has been steadily increasing throughout a period of half a century. It has, at the same time, excited political ambitions and apprehensions which have produced a profound agitation throughout the civilized world. In this unusual agitation we have forborne from taking part in any controversy between foreign states, and between parties or factions in such states. We have attempted no propagandism, and acknowledged no revolution. But we have left to every nation the exclusive conduct and management of its own affairs. Our struggle has been, of course, contemplated by foreign nations with reference less to its own merits, than to its supposed, and often exaggerated effects and consequences resulting to those nations themselves. Nevertheless, complaint on the part of this government, even if it were just, would certainly be unwise. The treaty with Great Britain for the suppression of the slave trade has been put into operation with a good prospect of complete success. It is an occasion of special pleasure to acknowledge that the execution of it, on the part of Her Majesty's government, has been marked with a jealous respect for the authority of the United States, and the rights of their moral and loyal citizens. The convention with Hanover for the abolition of the stade dues has been carried into full effect, under the act of Congress for that purpose. A blockade of three thousand miles of sea-coast could not be established, and vigorously enforced, in a season of great commercial activity like the present, without committing occasional mistakes, and inflicting unintentional injuries upon foreign nations and their subjects. A civil war occurring in a country where foreigners reside and carry on trade under treaty stipulations, is necessarily fruitful of complaints of the violation of neutral rights. All such collisions tend to excite misapprehensions, and possibly to produce mutual reclamations between nations which have a common interest in preserving peace and friendship. In clear cases of these kinds I have, so far as possible, heard and redressed complaints which have been presented by friendly powers. There is still, however, a large and an augmenting number of doubtful cases upon which the government is unable to agree with the governments whose protection is demanded by the claimants. There are, moreover, many cases in which the United States, or their citizens, suffer wrongs from the naval or military authorities of foreign nations, which the governments of those states are not at once prepared to redress. I have proposed to some of the foreign states, thus interested, mutual conventions to examine and adjust such complaints. This proposition has been made especially to Great Britain, to France, to Spain, and to Prussia. In each case it has been kindly received, but has not yet been formally adopted. I deem it my duty to recommend an appropriation in behalf of the owners of the Norwegian bark Admiral P. Tordenskiold, which vessel was, in May, 1861, prevented by the commander of the blockading force off Charleston from leaving that port with cargo, notwithstanding a similar privilege had, shortly before, been granted to an English vessel. I have directed the Secretary of State to cause the papers in the case to be communicated to the proper committees.  Applications have been made to me by many free Americans of African descent to favor their emigration, with a view to such colonization as was contemplated in recent acts of Congress. Other parties, at home and abroad---some from interested motives, others upon patriotic considerations, and still others influenced by philanthropic sentiments---have suggested similar measures; while, on the other hand, several of the Spanish-American republics have protested against the sending of such colonies to their respective territories. Under these circumstances, I have declined to move any such colony to any state, without first obtaining the consent of its government, with an agreement on its part to receive and protect such emigrants in all the rights of freemen; and I have, at the same time, offered to the several states situated within the tropics, or having colonies there, to negotiate with them, subject to the advice and consent of the Senate, to favor the voluntary emigration of persons of that class to their respective territories, upon conditions which shall be equal, just, and humane. Liberia and Hayti are, as yet, the only countries to which colonists of African descent from here, could go with certainty of being received and adopted as citizens; and I regret to say such persons, contemplating colonization, do not seem so willing to migrate to those countries, as to some others, nor so willing as I think their interest demands. I believe, however, opinion among them, in this respect, is improving; and that, ere long, there will be an augmented, and considerable migration to both these countries, from the United States. The new commercial treaty between the United States and the Sultan of Turkey has been carried into execution. A commercial and consular treaty has been negotiated, subject to the Senate's consent, with Liberia; and a similar negotiation is now pending with the republic of Hayti. A considerable improvement of the national commerce is expected to result from these measures. Our relations with Great Britain, France, Spain, Portugal, Russia, Prussia, Denmark, Sweden, Austria, the Netherlands, Italy, Rome, and the other European states, remain undisturbed. Very favorable relations also continue to be maintained with Turkey, Morocco, China and Japan. During the last year there has not only been no change of our previous relations with the independent states of our own continent, but, more friendly sentiments than have heretofore existed, are believed to be entertained by these neighbors, whose safety and progress, are so intimately connected with our own. This statement especially applies to Mexico, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Honduras, Peru, and Chile. The commission under the convention with the republic of New Granada closed its session, without having audited and passed upon, all the claims which were submitted to it. A proposition is pending to revive the convention, that it may be able to do more complete justice. The joint commission between the United States and the republic of Costa Rica has completed its labors and submitted its report. I have favored the project for connecting the United States with Europe by an Atlantic telegraph, and a similar project to extend the telegraph from San Francisco, to connect by a Pacific telegraph with the line which is being extended across the Russian empire. The Territories of the United States, with unimportant exceptions, have remained undisturbed by the civil war, and they are exhibiting such evidence of prosperity as justifies an expectation that some of them will soon be in a condition to be organized as States, and be constitutionally admitted into the federal Union. The immense mineral resources of some of those Territories ought to be developed as rapidly as possible. Every step in that direction would have a tendency to improve the revenues of the government, and diminish the burdens of the people. It is worthy of your serious consideration whether some extraordinary measures to promote that end cannot be adopted. The means which suggests itself as most likely to be effective, is a scientific exploration of the mineral regions in those Territories, with a view to the publication of its results at home and in foreign countries---results which cannot fail to be auspicious. The condition of the finances will claim your most diligent consideration. The vast expenditures incident to the military and naval operations required for the suppression of the rebellion, have hitherto been met with a promptitude, and certainty, unusual in similar circumstances, and the public credit has been fully maintained. The continuance of the war, however, and the increased disbursements made necessary by the augmented forces now in the field, demand your best reflections as to the best modes of providing the necessary revenue, without injury to business and with the least possible burdens upon labor. The suspension of specie payments by the banks, soon after the commencement of your last session, made large issues of United States notes unavoidable. In no other way could the payment of the troops, and the satisfaction of other just demands, be so economically, or so well provided for. The judicious legislation of Congress, securing the receivability of these notes for loans and internal duties, and making them a legal tender for other debts, has made them an universal currency; and has satisfied, partially, at least, and for the time, the long felt want of an uniform circulating medium, saving thereby to the people, immense sums in discounts and exchanges. A return to specie payments, however, at the earliest period compatible with due regard to all interests concerned, should ever be kept in view. Fluctuations in the value of currency are always injurious, and to reduce these fluctuations to the lowest possible point will always be a leading purpose in wise legislation. Convertibility, prompt and certain convertibility into coin, is generally acknowledged to be the best and surest safeguard against them; and it is extremely doubtful whether a circulation of United States notes, payable in coin, and sufficiently large for the wants of the people, can be permanently, usefully and safely maintained. Is there, then, any other mode in which the necessary provision for the public wants can be made, and the great advantages of a safe and uniform currency secured? I know of none which promises so certain results, and is, at the same time, so unobjectionable, as the organization of banking associations, under a general act of Congress, well guarded in its provisions. To such associations the government might furnish circulating notes, on the security of United States bonds deposited in the treasury. These notes, prepared under the supervision of proper officers, being uniform in appearance and security, and convertible always into coin, would at once protect labor against the evils of a vicious currency, and facilitate commerce by cheap and safe exchanges. A moderate reservation from the interest on the bonds would compensate the United States for the preparation and distribution of the notes and a general supervision of the system, and would lighten the burden of that part of the public debt employed as securities. The public credit, moreover, would be greatly improved, and the negotiation of new loans greatly facilitated by the steady market demand for government bonds which the adoption of the proposed system would create. It is an additional recommendation of the measure, of considerable weight, in my judgment, that it would reconcile, as far as possible, all existing interests, by the opportunity offered to existing institutions to reorganize under the act, substituting only the secured uniform national circulation for the local and various circulation, secured and unsecured, now issued by them. The receipts into the treasury from all sources, including loans and balance from the preceding year, for the fiscal year ending on the 30th June, 1862, were $583,885,247 06, of which sum $49,056,397 62 were derived from customs; $1,795,331,73 from the direct tax; from public lands $152,203,77; from miscellaneous sources, $931,787 64; from loans in all forms, $529,692,460 50. The remainder, $2,257,065 80, was the balance from last year. The disbursements during the same period were for congressional, executive, and judicial purposes, $5,939,009 29; for foreign intercourse, $1,339,710,35; for miscellaneous expenses, including the mints, loans, post office deficiencies, collection of revenue, and other like charges, $14,129,771 50; for expenses under the Interior Department, $3,102,985 52; under the War Department, $394,368,407,36; under the Navy Department, $42,674,569 69; for interest on public debt, $13,190,324 45; and for payment of public debt, including reimbursement of temporary loan, and redemptions, $96,096,922 09; making an aggregate of $570,841,700 25; and leaving a balance in the treasury on the first day of July, 1862, of $13,043,546,81. It should be observed that the sum of $96,096,922 09, expended for reimbursements and redemption of public debt, being included also in the loans made, may be properly deducted, both from receipts and expenditures, leaving the actual receipts for the year $487,788,324 97; and the expenditures, $474,744,778 16. Other information on the subject of the finances will be found in the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, to whose statements and views I invite your most candid and considerate attention. The reports of the Secretaries of War, and of the Navy, are herewith transmitted. These reports, though lengthy, are scarcely more than brief abstracts of the very numerous and extensive transactions and operations conducted through those departments. Nor could I give a summary of them here, upon any principle, which would admit of its being much shorter than the reports themselves. I therefore content myself with laying the reports before you, and asking your attention to them. It gives me pleasure to report a decided improvement in the financial condition of the Post Office Department, as compared with several preceding years. The receipts for the fiscal year 1861 amounted to $8,349,296 40, which embraced the revenue from all the States of the Union for three quarters of that year. Notwithstanding the cessation of revenue from the so-called seceded States during the last fiscal year, the increase of the correspondence of the loyal States has been sufficient to produce a revenue during the same year of $8,299,820 90, being only $50,000 less than was derived from all the States of the Union during the previous year. The expenditures show a still more favorable result. The amount expended in 1861 was $13,606,759 11. For the last year the amount has been reduced to $11,125,364 13, showing a decrease of about $2,481,000 in the expenditures as compared with the preceding year and about $3,750,000 as compared with the fiscal year 1860. The deficiency in the department for the previous year was $4,551,966.98. For the last fiscal year it was reduced to $2,112,814.57. These favorable results are in part owing to the cessation of mail service in the insurrectionary States, and in part to a careful review of all expenditures in that department in the interest of economy. The efficiency of the postal service, it is believed, has also been much improved. The Postmaster General has also opened a correspondence, through the Department of State, with foreign governments, proposing a convention of postal representatives for the purpose of simplifying the rates of foreign postage, and to expedite the foreign mails. This proposition, equally important to our adopted citizens, and to the commercial interests of this country, has been favorably entertained, and agreed to, by all the governments from whom replies have been received. I ask the attention of Congress to the suggestions of the Postmaster General in his report respecting the further legislation required, in his opinion, for the benefit of the postal service. The Secretary of the Interior reports as follows in regard to the public lands: ``The public lands have ceased to be a source of revenue. From the 1st July, 1861, to the 30th September, 1862, the entire cash receipts from the sale of lands were $137,476 26---a sum much less than the expenses of our land system during the same period. The homestead law, which will take effect on the 1st of January next, offers such inducements to settlers, that sales for cash cannot be expected, to an extent sufficient to meet the expenses of the General Land Office, and the cost of surveying and bringing the land into market'' The discrepancy between the sum here stated as arising from the sales of the public lands, and the sum derived from the same source as reported from the Treasury Department arises, as I understand, from the fact that the periods of time, though apparently, were not really, coincident at the beginning point---the Treasury report including a considerable sum now, which had previously been reported from the Interior---sufficiently large to greatly overreach the sum derived from the three months now reported upon by the Interior, and not by the Treasury. The Indian tribes upon our frontiers have, during the past year, manifested a spirit of insubordination, and, at several points, have engaged in open hostilities against the white settlements in their vicinity. The tribes occupying the Indian country south of Kansas, renounced their allegiance to the United States, and entered into treaties with the insurgents. Those who remained loyal to the United States were driven from the country. The chief of the Cherokees has visited this city for the purpose of restoring the former relations of the tribe with the United States. He alleges that they were constrained, by superior force, to enter into treaties with the insurgents, and that the United States neglected to furnish the protection which their treaty stipulations required. In the month of August last the Sioux Indians, in Minnesota, attacked the settlements in their vicinity with extreme ferocity, killing, indiscriminately, men, women, and children. This attack was wholly unexpected, and, therefore, no means of defence had been provided. It is estimated that not less than eight hundred persons were killed by the Indians, and a large amount of property was destroyed. How this outbreak was induced is not definitely known, and suspicions, which may be unjust, need not to be stated. Information was received by the Indian bureau, from different sources, about the time hostilities were commenced, that a simultaneous attack was to be made upon the white settlements by all the tribes between the Mississippi river and the Rocky mountains. The State of Minnesota has suffered great injury from this Indian war. A large portion of her territory has been depopulated, and a severe loss has been sustained by the destruction of property. The people of that State manifest much anxiety for the removal of the tribes beyond the limits of the State as a guarantee against future hostilities. The Commissioner of Indian Affairs will furnish full details. I submit for your especial consideration whether our Indian system shall not be remodelled. Many wise and good men have impressed me with the belief that this can be profitably done. I submit a statement of the proceedings of commissioners, which shows the progress that has been made in the enterprise of constructing the Pacific railroad. And this suggests the earliest completion of this road, and also the favorable action of Congress upon the projects now pending before them for enlarging the capacities of the great canals in New York and Illinois, as being of vital, and rapidly increasing importance to the whole nation, and especially to the vast interior region hereinafter to be noticed at some greater length. I purpose having prepared and laid before you at an early day some interesting and valuable statistical information upon this subject. The military and commercial importance of enlarging the Illinois and Michigan canal, and improving the Illinois river, is presented in the report of Colonel Webster to the Secretary of War, and now transmitted to Congress. I respectfully ask attention to it. To carry out the provisions of the act of Congress of the 15th of May last, I have caused the Department of Agriculture of the United States to be organized. The Commissioner informs me that within the period of a few months this department has established an extensive system of correspondence and exchanges, both at home and abroad, which promises to effect highly beneficial results in the development of a correct knowledge of recent improvements in agriculture, in the introduction of new products, and in the collection of the agricultural statistics of the different States. Also that it will soon be prepared to distribute largely seeds, cereals, plants and cuttings, and has already published, and liberally diffused, much valuable information in anticipation of a more elaborate report, which will in due time be furnished, embracing some valuable tests in chemical science now in progress in the laboratory. The creation of this department was for the more immediate benefit of a large class of our most valuable citizens; and I trust that the liberal basis upon which it has been organized will not only meet your approbation, but that it will realize, at no distant day, all the fondest anticipations of its most sanguine friends, and become the fruitful source of advantage to all our people. On the twenty-second day of September last a proclamation was issued by the Executive, a copy of which is herewith submitted. In accordance with the purpose expressed in the second paragraph of that paper, I now respectfully recall your attention to what may be called ``compensated emancipation.'' A nation may be said to consist of its territory, its people, and its laws. The territory is the only part which is of certain durability. ``One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever.'' It is of the first importance to duly consider, and estimate, this ever-enduring part. That portion of the earth's surface which is owned and inhabited by the people of the United States, is well adapted to be the home of one national family; and it is not well adapted for two, or more. Its vast extent, and its variety of climate and productions, are of advantage, in this age, for one people, whatever they might have been in former ages. Steam, telegraphs, and intelligence, have brought these, to be an advantageous combination, for one united people. In the inaugural address I briefly pointed out the total inadequacy of disunion, as a remedy for the differences between the people of the two sections. I did so in language which I cannot improve, and which, therefore, I beg to repeat: ``One section of our country believes slavery is right , and ought to be extended, while the other believes it is wrong , and ought not to be extended. This is the only substantial dispute. The fugitive slave clause of the Constitution, and the law for the suppression of the foreign slave trade, are each as well enforced, perhaps, as any law can ever be in a community where the moral sense of the people imperfectly supports the law itself. The great body of the people abide by the dry legal obligation in both cases, and a few break over in each. This, I think, cannot be perfectly cured; and it would be worse in both cases after the separation of the sections, than before. The foreign slave trade, now imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately revived without restriction in one section; while fugitive slaves, now only partially surrendered, would not be surrendered at all by the other. ``Physically speaking, we cannot separate. We cannot remove our respective sections from each other, nor build an impassable wall between them. A husband and wife may be divorced, and go out of the presence, and beyond the reach of each other; but the different parts of our country cannot do this. They cannot but remain face to face; and intercourse, either amicable or hostile, must continue between them. Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more advantageous, or more satisfactory, after separation than before? Can aliens make treaties, easier than friends can make laws? Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens, than laws can among friends? Suppose you go to war, you cannot fight always; and when, after much loss on both sides, and no gain on either, you cease fighting, the identical old questions, as to terms of intercourse, are again upon you.'' There is no line, straight or crooked, suitable for a national boundary, upon which to divide. Trace through, from east to west, upon the line between the free and slave country, and we shall find a little more than one-third of its length are rivers, easy to be crossed, and populated, or soon to be populated, thickly upon both sides; while nearly all its remaining length, are merely surveyor's lines, over which people may walk back and forth without any consciousness of their presence. No part of this line can be made any more difficult to pass, by writing it down on paper, or parchment, as a national boundary. The fact of separation, if it comes, gives up, on the part of the seceding section, the fugitive slave clause, along with all other constitutional obligations upon the section seceded from, while I should expect no treaty stipulation would ever be made to take its place. But there is another difficulty. The great interior region, bounded east by the Alleghanies, north by the British dominions, west by the Rocky mountains, and south by the line along which the culture of corn and cotton meets, and which includes part of Virginia, part of Tennessee, all of Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Iowa, Minnesota and the Territories of Dakota, Nebraska, and part of Colorado, already has above ten millions of people, and will have fifty millions within fifty years, if not prevented by any political folly or mistake. It contains more than one-third of the country owned by the United States---certainly more than one million of square miles. Once half as populous as Massachusetts already is, it would have more than seventy-five millions of people. A glance at the map shows that, territorially speaking, it is the great body of the republic. The other parts are but marginal borders to it, the magnificent region sloping west from the rocky mountains to the Pacific, being the deepest, and also the richest, in undeveloped resources. In the production of provisions, grains, grasses, and all which proceed from them, this great interior region is naturally one of the most important in the world. Ascertain from the statistics the small proportion of the region which has, as yet, been brought into cultivation, and also the large and rapidly increasing amount of its products, and we shall be overwhelmed with the magnitude of the prospect presented. An[d] yet this region has no sea-coast, touches no ocean anywhere. As part of one nation, its people now find, and may forever find, their way to Europe by New York, to South America and Africa by New Orleans, and to Asia by San Francisco. But separate our common country into two nations, as designed by the present rebellion, and every man of this great interior region is thereby cut off from some one or more of these outlets, not, perhaps, by a physical barrier, but by embarrassing and onerous trade regulations. And this is true, wherever a dividing, or boundary line, may be fixed. Place it between the now free and slave country, or place it south of Kentucky, or north of Ohio, and still the truth remains, that none south of it, can trade to any port or place north of it, and none north of it, can trade to any port or place south of it, except upon terms dictated by a government foreign to them. These outlets, east, west, and south, are indispensable to the well-being of the people inhabiting, and to inhabit, this vast interior region. Which of the three may be the best, is no proper question. All, are better than either, and all, of right, belong to that people, and to their successors forever. True to themselves, they will not ask where a line of separation shall be, but will vow, rather, that there shall be no such line. Nor are the marginal regions less interested in these communications to, and through them, to the great outside world. They too, and each of them, must have access to this Egypt of the West, without paying toll at the crossing of any national boundary. Our national strife springs not from our permanent part; not from the land we inhabit; not from our national homestead. There is no possible severing of this, but would multiply, and not mitigate, evils among us. In all its adaptations and aptitudes, it demands union, and abhors separation. In fact, it would, ere long, force re-union, however much of blood and treasure the separation might have cost. Our strife pertains to ourselves---to the passing generations of men; and it can, without convulsion, be hushed forever with the passing of one generation. In this view, I recommend the adoption of the following resolution and articles amendatory to the Constitution of the United States: ``Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , (two thirds of both houses concurring,) That the following articles be proposed to the legislatures (or conventions) of the several States as amendments to the Constitution of the United States, all or any of which articles when ratified by three-fourths of the said legislatures (or conventions) to be valid as part or parts of the said Constitution, viz: ``Article ---. ``Every State, wherein slavery now exists, which shall abolish the same therein, at any time, or times, before the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand and nine hundred, shall receive compensation from the United States as follows, to wit: ``The President of the United States shall deliver to every such State, bonds of the United States, bearing interest at the rate of --- per cent, per annum, to an amount equal to the aggregate sum of for each slave shown to have been therein, by the eig[h]th census of the United States, said bonds to be delivered to such State by instalments, or in one parcel, at the completion of the abolishment, accordingly as the same shall have been gradual, or at one time, within such State; and interest shall begin to run upon any such bond, only from the proper time of its delivery as aforesaid. Any State having received bonds as aforesaid, and afterwards reintroducing or tolerating slavery therein, shall refund to the United States the bonds so received, or the value thereof, and all interest paid thereon. ``Article ---. ``All slaves who shall have enjoyed actual freedom by the chances of the war, at any time before the end of the rebellion, shall be forever free; but all owners of such, who shall not have been disloyal, shall be compensated for them, at the same rates as is provided for States adopting abolishment of slavery, but in such way, that no slave shall be twice accounted for. ``Article ---. ``Congress may appropriate money, and otherwise provide, for colonizing free colored persons, with their own consent, at any place or places without the United States.'' I beg indulgence to discuss these proposed articles at some length. Without slavery the rebellion could never have existed; without slavery it could not continue. Among the friends of the Union there is great diversity, of sentiment, and of policy, in regard to slavery, and the African race amongst us. Some would perpetuate slavery; some would abolish it suddenly, and without compensation; some would abolish it gradually, and with compensation; some would remove the freed people from us, and some would retain them with us; and there are yet other minor diversities. Because of these diversities, we waste much strength in struggles among ourselves. By mutual concession we should harmonize, and act together. This would be compromise; but it would be compromise among the friends, and not with the enemies of the Union. These articles are intended to embody a plan of such mutual concessions. If the plan shall be adopted, it is assumed that emancipation will follow, at least, in several of the States. As to the first article, the main points are: first, the emancipation; secondly, the length of time for consummating it---thirty-seven years; and thirdly, the compensation. The emancipation will be unsatisfactory to the advocates of perpetual slavery; but the length of time should greatly mitigate their dissatisfaction. The time spares both races from the evils of sudden derangement---in fact, from the necessity of any derangement---while most of those whose habitual course of thought will be disturbed by the measure will have passed away before its consummation. They will never see it. Another class will hail the prospect of emancipation, but will deprecate the length of time. They will feel that it gives too little to the now living slaves. But it really gives them much. It saves them from the vagrant destitution which must largely attend immediate emancipation in localities where their numbers are very great; and it gives the inspiring assurance that their posterity shall be free forever. The plan leaves to each State, choosing to act under it, to abolish slavery now, or at the end of the century, or at any intermediate time, or by degrees, extending over the whole or any part of the period; and it obliges no two states to proceed alike. It also provides for compensation, and generally the mode of making it. This, it would seem, must further mitigate the dissatisfaction of those who favor perpetual slavery, and especially of those who are to receive the compensation. Doubtless some of those who are to pay, and not to receive will object. Yet the measure is both just and economical. In a certain sense the liberation of slaves is the destruction of property---property acquired by descent, or by purchased, the same as any other property. It is no less true for having been often said, that the people of the south are not more responsible for the original introduction of this property, than are the people of the north; and when it is remembered how unhesitatingly we all use cotton and sugar, and share the profits of dealing in them, it may not be quite safe to say, that the south has been more responsible than the north for its continuance. If then, for a common object, this property is to be sacrificed is it not just that it be done at a common charge? And if, with less money, or money more easily paid, we can preserve the benefits of the Union by this means, than we can by the war alone, is it not also economical to do it? Let us consider it then. Let us ascertain the sum we have expended in the war since compensated emancipation was proposed last March, and consider whether, if that measure had been promptly accepted, by even some of the slave States, the same sum would not have done more to close the war, than has been otherwise done. If so the measure would save money, and, in that view, would be a prudent and economical measure. Certainly it is not so easy to pay something as it is to pay nothing ; but it is easier to pay a large sum than it is to pay a larger one. And it is easier to pay any sum when we are able, than it is to pay it before we are able. The war requires large sums, and requires them at once. The aggregate sum necessary for compensated emancipation, of course, would be large. But it would require no ready cash; nor the bonds even, any faster than the emancipation progresses. This might not, and probably would not, close before the end of the thirty-seven years. At that time we shall probably have a hundred millions of people to share the burden, instead of thirty one millions, as now. And not only so, but the increase of our population may be expected to continue for a long time after that period, as rapidly as before; because our territory will not have become full. I do not state this inconsiderately. At the same ratio of increase which we have maintained, on an average, from our first national census, in 1790, until that of 1860, we should, in 1900, have a population of 103,208,415. And why may we not continue that ratio far beyond that period? Our abundant room---our broad national homestead---is our ample resource. Were our territory as limited as are the British Isles, very certainly our population could not expand as stated. Instead of receiving the foreign born, as now, we should be compelled to send part of the native born away. But such is not our condition. We have two millions nine hundred and sixty-three thousand square miles. Europe has three millions and eight hundred thousand, with a population averaging seventy-three and one-third persons to the square mile. Why may not our country, at some time, average as many? Is it less fertile? Has it more waste surface, by mountains, rivers, lakes, deserts, or other causes? Is it inferior to Europe in any natural advantage? If, then, we are, at some time, to be as populous as Europe, how soon? As to when this may be, we can judge by the past and the present; as to when it will be, if ever, depends much on whether we maintain the Union. Several of our States are already above the average of Europe---seventy three and a third to the square mile. Massachusetts has 157; Rhode Island, 133; Connecticut, 99; New York and New Jersey, each, 80; also two other great States, Pennsylvania and Ohio, are not far below, the former having 63, and the latter 59. The States already above the European average, except New York, have increased in as rapid a ratio, since passing that point, as ever before; while no one of them is equal to some other parts of our country, in natural capacity for sustaining a dense population. Taking the nation in the aggregate, and we find its population and ratio of increase, for the several decennial periods, to be as follows:--- 1790 	3,929,827 1800 	5,305,937 	35.02 per cent. 	{ratio of {increase 1810 	7,239,814 	36.45 	`` 1820 	9,638,131 	33.13 	`` 1830 	12,866,020 	33.49 	`` 1840 	17,069,453 	32.67 	`` 1850 	23,191,876 	35.87 	`` 1860 	31,443,790 	35.58 	`` This shows an average decennial increase of 34.60 per cent. in population through the seventy years from our first, to our last census yet taken. It is seen that the ratio of increase, at no one of these seven periods, is either two per cent. below, or two per cent. above, the average; thus showing how inflexible, and, consequently, how reliable, the law of increase, in our case, is. Assuming that it will continue, gives the following results:--- 1870 	42,323,341 	1910 	138,918,526 1880 	56,967,216 	1920 	186,984,335 1890 	76,677,872 	1930 	251,680,914 1900 	103,208,415 These figures show that our country may be as populous as Europe now is, at some point between 1920 and 1930---say about 1925---our territory, at seventy-three and a third persons to the square mile, being of capacity to contain 217,186,000. And we will reach this, too, if we do not ourselves relinquish the chance, by the folly and evils of disunion, or by long and exhausting war springing from the only great element of national discord among us. While it cannot be foreseen exactly how much one huge example of secession, breeding lesser ones indefinitely, would retard population, civilization, and prosperity, no one can doubt that the extent of it would be very great and injurious. The proposed emancipation would shorten the war, perpetuate peace, insure this increase of population, and proportionately the wealth of the country. With these, we should pay all the emancipation would cost, together with our other debt, easier than we should pay our other debt, without it. If we had allowed our old national debt to run at six per cent. per annum, simple interest, from the end of our revolutionary struggle until to day, without paying anything on either principal or interest, each man of us would owe less upon that debt now, than each man owed upon it then; and this because our increase of men, through the whole period, has been greater than six per cent.; has run faster than the interest upon the debt. Thus, time alone relieves a debtor nation, so long as its population increases faster than unpaid interest accumulates on its debt. This fact would be no excuse for delaying payment of what is justly due; but it shows the great importance of time in this connexion---the great advantage of a policy by which we shall not have to pay until we number a hundred millions, what, by a different policy, we would have to pay now, when we number but thirty one millions. In a word, it shows that a dollar will be much harder to pay for the war, than will be a dollar for emancipation on the proposed plan. And then the latter will cost no blood, no precious life. It will be a saving of both. As to the second article, I think it would be impracticable to return to bondage the class of persons therein contemplated. Some of them, doubtless, in the property sense, belong to loyal owners; and hence, provision is made in this article for compensating such. The third article relates to the future of the freed people. It does not oblige, but merely authorizes, Congress to aid in colonizing such as may consent. This ought not to be regarded as objectionable, on the one hand, or on the other, in so much as it comes to nothing, unless by the mutual consent of the people to be deported, and the American voters, through their representatives in Congress. I cannot make it better known than it already is, that I strongly favor colonization. And yet I wish to say there is an objection urged against free colored persons remaining in the country, which is largely imaginary, if not sometimes malicious. It is insisted that their presence would injure, and displace white labor and white laborers. If there ever could be a proper time for mere catch arguments, that time surely is not now. In times like the present, men should utter nothing for which they would not willingly be responsible through time and in eternity. Is it true, then, that colored people can displace any more white labor, by being free, than by remaining slaves? If they stay in their old places, they jostle no white laborers; if they leave their old places, they leave them open to white laborers. Logically, there is neither more nor less of it. Emancipation, even without deportation, would probably enhance the wages of white labor, and, very surely, would not reduce them. Thus, the customary amount of labor would still have to be performed; the freed people would surely not do more than their old proportion of it, and very probably, for a time, would do less, leaving an increased part to white laborers, bringing their labor into greater demand, and, consequently, enhancing the wages of it. With deportation, even to a limited extent, enhanced wages to white labor is mathematically certain. Labor is like any other commodity in the market---increase the demand for it, and you increase the price of it. Reduce the supply of black labor, by colonizing the black laborer out of the country, and, by precisely so much, you increase the demand for, and wages of, white labor. But it is dreaded that the freed people will swarm forth, and cover the whole land? Are they not already in the land? Will liberation make them any more numerous? Equally distributed among the whites of the whole country, and there would be but one colored to seven whites. Could the one, in any way, greatly disturb the seven? There are many communities now, having more than one free colored person, to seven whites; and this, without any apparent consciousness of evil from it. The District of Columbia, and the States of Maryland and Delaware, are all in this condition. The District has more than one free colored to six whites; and yet, in its frequent petitions to Congress, I believe it has never presented the presence of free colored persons as one of its grievances. But why should emancipation south, send the free people north? People, of any color, seldom run, unless there be something to run from. Heretofore colored people, to some extent, have fled north from bondage; and now , perhaps, from both bondage and destitution. But if gradual emancipation and deportation be adopted, they will have neither to flee from. Their old masters will give them wages at least until new laborers can be procured; and the freed men, in turn, will gladly give their labor for the wages, till new homes can be found for them, in congenial climes, and with people of their own blood and race. This proposition can be trusted on the mutual interests involved. And, in any event, cannot the north decide for itself, whether to receive them? Again, as practice proves more than theory, in any case, has there been any irruption of colored people northward, because of the abolishment of slavery in this District last spring? What I have said of the proportion of free colored persons to the whites, in the District, is from the census of 1860, having no reference to persons called contrabands, nor to those made free by the act of Congress abolishing slavery here. The plan consisting of these articles is recommended, not but that a restoration of the national authority would be accepted without its adoption. Nor will the war, nor proceedings under the proclamation of September 22, 1862, be stayed because of the recommendation of this plan. Its timely adoption , I doubt not, would bring restoration and thereby stay both. And, notwithstanding this plan, the recommendation that Congress provide by law for compensating any State which may adopt emancipation, before this plan shall have been acted upon, is hereby earnestly renewed. Such would be only an advance part of the plan, and the same arguments apply to both. This plan is recommended as a means, not in exclusion of, but additional to, all others for restoring and preserving the national authority throughout the Union. The subject is presented exclusively in its economical aspect. The plan would, I am confident, secure peace more speedily, and maintain it more permanently, than can be done by force alone; while all it would cost, considering amounts, and manner of payment, and times of payment, would be easier paid than will be the additional cost of the war, if we rely solely upon force. It is much---very much---that it would cost no blood at all. The plan is proposed as permanent constitutional law. It cannot become such without the concurrence of, first, two-thirds of Congress, and, afterwards, three-fourths of the States. The requisite three-fourths of the States will necessarily include seven of the Slave states. Their concurrence, if obtained, will give assurance of their severally adopting emancipation, at no very distant day, upon the new constitutional terms. This assurance would end the struggle now, and save the Union forever. I do not forget the gravity which should characterize a paper addressed to the Congress of the nation by the Chief Magistrate of the nation. Nor do I forget that some of you are my seniors, nor that many of you have more experience than I, in the conduct of public affairs. Yet I trust that in view of the great responsibility resting upon me, you will perceive no want of respect to yourselves, in any undue earnestness. I may seem to display. Is it doubted, then, that the plan I propose, if adopted, would shorten the war, and thus lessen its expenditure of money and of blood? Is it doubted that it would restore the national authority and national prosperity, and perpetuate both indefinitely? Is it doubted that we here---Congress and Executive---can secure its adoption? Will not the good people respond to a united, and earnest appeal from us? Can we, can they, by any other means, so certainly, or so speedily, assure these vital objects? We can succeed only by concert. It is not ``can any of us imagine better?'' but ``can we all do better?'' Object whatsoever is possible, still the question recurs ``can we do better?'' The dogmas of the quiet past, are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew, and act anew. We must disenthrall our selves, and then we shall save our country. Fellow-citizens, we cannot escape history. We of this Congress and this administration, will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal significance, or insignificance, can spare one or another of us. The fiery trial through which we pass, will light us down, in honor or dishonor, to the latest generation. We say we are for the Union. The world will not forget that we say this. We know how to save the Union. The world knows we do know how to save it. We---even we here ---hold the power, and bear the responsibility. In giving freedom to the slave , we assure freedom to the free ---honorable alike in what we give, and what we preserve. We shall nobly save, or meanly lose, the last best, hope of earth. Other means may succeed; this could not fail. The way is plain, peaceful, generous, just---a way which, if followed, the world will forever applaud, and God must forever bless. December 1, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion, Washington, Judge Advocate General Dec. 1. 1862.
Sir: Three hundred Indians have been sentenced to death in Minnesota by a Military Commission, and execution only awaits my action. I wish your legal opinion whether if I should conclude to execute only a part of them, I must myself designate which, or could I leave the designation to some officer on the ground? Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 2, 1862
Ordered that all officers of the peculiar military force organized in Missouri by Governor Gamble  . . . may be, by said Governor, in his discretion, removed from office; and he may accept resignations tendered by them, or any of them, he notifying this Department in each case, wherein his action in such cases will be confirmed.

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 2, 1862.
On authority of this report I direct that Capt. Benjamin P. Walker be restored if practicable without detriment by the dismissal. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 3, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives. On the third of November, 1861, a collision took place off the coast of Cuba between the United States War Steamer `San Jacinto' and the French Brig `Jules et Marie,' resulting in serious damage to the latter. The obligation of this government to make amends therefor, could not be questioned if the injury resulted from any fault on the part of the `San Jacinto.' With a view to ascertain this, the subject was referred to a Commission of the United States and French naval officers at New York, with a naval officer of Italy as an arbiter. The conclusion arrived at was, that the collision was occasioned by the failure of the `San Jacinto' seasonably to reverse her engine. It then became necessary to ascertain the amount of indemnification due to the injured party. The United States Consul General at Havana was consequently instructed to confer with the Consul of France on this point, and they have determined that the sum of nine thousand five hundred dollars is an equitable allowance under the circumstances. I recommend an appropriation of this sum for the benefit of the owners of the `Jules et Marie.' A copy of the letter of Mr. Shufeldt, the Consul General of the United States at Havana, to the Secretary of State on the subject is herewith transmitted. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington---December 3, 1862.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir, Washington, Dec. 3. 1862.
I wish Edmund Gifford of Ills. appointed an Additional Paymaster at once. I am under some obligation to Col. Farnsworth  in this matter. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I personally know the writer of this to be a good man. Dec. 4. 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Sec. of the Treasury Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Dec. 5. 1862.
With my understanding of the present condition of Missouri, and especially that part of it, North of the Missouri River, I think the attached resolutions are reasonable. Have you any thing to do with it, or does it belong exclusively to the Secretary of War? Please answer me, returning this note & resolution[s] to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Caleb B. Smith
Hon. Sec. of Interior Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Dec. 5. 1862.
Please have the Commissioner of Indian Affairs make out and send me as complete an answer to the enclosed Resolution of the Senate, as the means for so, doing, can be found in his Office. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 5, 1862
I would be glad for the leave of absence to be granted if it can consistently be done.

To Cyrus Aldrich
Hon. Cyrus Aldrich Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Dec. 6. 1862.
In answer to your inquiries I can only say, at this distance of time, that I remember the Land-officers at Vandalia, Palestine, Danville and Dixon, in the State of Illinois, who went in under the administration of President Taylor, afterwards made a claim in connection with the location of Land-Warrants in the respective offices, which claim was disallowed by the accounting officers at Washington; that the claim, and consequently the question in all the cases was the same, and that the officers, of whom you were one, determined to test the legality of the claim in a suit against one of them, which might be brought by the government; & I think the District Attorney also agreed to it, so far as to sue one only---Daniel Clapp, of Danville & Judge Logan and myself were engaged to defend; and while I, do not now remember the exact question, I do remember that I expected the defence would succeed, and I am sure there was nothing in the claim, to cast any imputation upon the parties making it . My recollection is that the defendants or rather, the single defendant , constantly sought to bring the suit to trial, that the District Attorney was never ready , and that the case lingered many years, and, as I think was still on the docket when I came on here . Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Henry H. Sibley
Brigadier General H.H. Sibley Executive Mansion, St. Paul Washington, Minnesota. December 6th. 1862.
Ordered that of the Indians and Half-breeds sentenced to be hanged by the Military Commission, composed of Colonel Crooks, Lt. Colonel Marshall, Captain Grant, Captain Bailey, and Lieutenant Olin,  and lately sitting in Minnesota, you cause to be executed on Friday the nineteenth day of December, instant, the following named, towit ``Te-he-hdo-ne-cha.'' 	No. 2. by the record. ``Tazoo'' alias ``Plan-doo-ta.'' 	No. 4. by the record. ``Wy-a-tah-to-wah'' 	No. 5 by the record. ``Hin-han-shoon-ko-yag.'' 	No. 6 by the record. ``Muz-za-bom-a-du.'' 	No. 10. by the record. ``Wah-pay-du-ta.'' 	No. 11. by the record. ``Wa-he-hud.'' 	No. 12. by the record. ``Sna-ma-ni.'' 	No. 14. by the record. ``Ta-te-mi-na.'' 	No. 15. by the record. ``Rda-in-yan-kna.'' 	No. 19. by the record. ``Do-wan-sa.'' 	No. 22. by the record. ``Ha-pan.'' 	No. 24. by the record. ``Shoon-ka-ska.'' (White Dog). 	No. 35. by the record. ``Toon-kan-e-chah-tay-mane.'' 	No. 67. by the record. ``E-tay-hoo-tay.'' 	No. 68. by the record. ``Am-da-cha.'' 	No. 69. by the record. ``Hay-pee-don---or, Wamne-omne-ho-ta.'' 	No. 70. by the record. ``Mahpe-o-ke-na-ji.'' 	No. 96. by the record. ``Henry Milord''---a Half-breed. 	No. 115. by the record. ``Chaskay-don''---or Chaskayetay.'' 	No. 121. by the record. ``Baptiste Campbell'' a Halfbreed. 	No. 138. by the record. ``Tah-ta-kay-gay.'' 	No. 155. by the record. ``Ha-pink-pa.'' 	No. 170 by the record. ``Hypolite Ange'' a Half-breed. 	No. 175 by the record. ``Na-pay-Shue.'' 	No. 178. by the record. ``Wa-kan-tan-ka.'' 	No. 210. by the record. ``Toon-kan-ka-yag-e-na-jin.'' 	No. 225. by the record. ``Ma-kat-e-na-jin.'' 	No. 254. by the record. ``Pa-zee-koo-tay-ma-ne.'' 	No. 264. by the record. ``Ta-tay-hde-don.'' 	No. 279. by the record. ``Wa-She-choon,'' or ``Toon- kan-shkan-shkan-mene-hay.'' 	No. 318. by the record. ``A-e-cha-ga.'' 	No. 327. by the record. ``Ha-tan-in-koo.'' 	No. 333. by the record. ``Chay-ton-hoon-ka.'' 	No. 342. by the record. ``Chan-ka-hda.'' 	No. 359. by the record. ``Hda-hin-hday.'' 	No. 373. by the record. ``O-ya-tay-a-koo.'' 	No. 377. by the record. ``May-hoo-way-wa.'' 	No. 382. by the record. ``Wa-kin-yan-na.'' 	No. 383 by the record The other condemned prisoners you will hold subject to further orders, taking care that they neither escape, nor are subjected to any unlawful violence. ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Dec. 6. 1862.
This morning Senator Henderson Hon. T. L. Price of Mo both of Missouri, call and ask that Rufus K. Sanders be appointed an Additional Paymaster. It is believed that papers in his favor are already on file. I would like for these gentlemen to be obliged so soon as it can consistently be done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To B. Gratz Brown
Hon. B. Gratz Brown Executive Mansion, St. Louis Mo. Washington, Dec. 7, 1862.
Yours of the 3rd. received yesterday. Have already done what I can in the premises. A. LINCOLN.

To Charles P. Kirkland
Charles P. Kirkland, Esq Executive Mansion, New-York. Washington, Dec. 7, 1862.
I have just received, and hastily read your published letter to the Hon. Benjamin R. Curtis. Under the circumstances I may not be the most competent judge, but it appears to me to be a paper of great ability, and for the country's sake, more than my own, I thank you for it. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Henry J. Raymond
Hon. H.J. Raymond Executive Mansion, Times Office Washington, New-York. Dec. 7, 1862.
Yours of Nov. 25. reached me only yesterday. Thank you for it. I shall consider and remember your suggestions. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dahlgren

Will Capt. Dahlgren please call and see me at once? Dec. 8. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion, Washington, Maj Genl. Halleck. Dec 8th. 1862.
I find on maps here that Huntsville [Hartsville, Tennessee] is on the North bank of Cumberland river, sixteen miles directly east of Gallatin, and apparently on a turnpike road leading towards East Tennessee generally. What on earth an isolated Brigade was doing there I can not concieve The road is not a line between any two places in our possession. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Andrew Johnson Executive Mansion, Nashville, Tennessee--- Washington, Dec. 8. 1862.
Jesse H. Strickland is here asking authority to raise a Regiment of Tennesseans. Would you advise that the authority be given him? A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 8, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: In conformity to the Law of 16 July 1862, I most cordially recommend that Commander John L. Worden, U.S. Navy, receive a vote of thanks of Congress for the eminent skill and gallantry, exhibited by him in the late remarkable battle between the U.S. Iron clad steamer Monitor, under his command, and the Rebel Iron clad Steamer Merrimack, in March last. The thanks of Congress for his services on the occasion referred to, were tendered by a Resolution approved 11 July 1862, but the recommendation is now specially made in order to comply with the requirements of the 9th. Section of the Act of 16 July 1862, which is in the following words, viz:--- ``That any line Officer of the Navy or Marine Corps may be advanced one grade, if, upon recommendation of the President by name, he receives the thanks of Congress for highly distinguished conduct in conflict with the enemy, or for extraordinary heroism in the line of his profession.'' ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, D.C. 8 December 1862.

To Henry W. Halleck

Gen. Halleck please examine the within, with reference to appointing a Brig Genl. A. LINCOLN Dec. 9, 1862

To the Senate
To, The Senate of the United States. December 9, 1862
In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the United States of the 13th of March last, requesting a copy of the correspondence relative to the attempted seizure of Mr. Fauchet, by the Commander of the ``Africa,'' within the waters of the United States, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, and the documents by which it was accompanied. Washington, December, 9th, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Major General Curtis Executive Mansion, Washington, St. Louis, Mo. Dec. 10, 1862. [10:25 A.M.]
Please suspend, until further order, all proceedings on the order made by Gen. Schofield on the 28th. day of August last, for assessing and collecting from Secessionists and Southern sympathizers the sum of Five hundred thousand dollars &c and, in the meantime make out and send me a statement of facts pertinent to the question, together with your opinion upon it. A. LINCOLN

To Jesse K. Dubois
Hon. J.K. Dubois Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Dec. 10. 1862.
In the summer of 1859 when Mr. Freeman visited Springfield, Illinois, in relation to the McCallister & Stebbins bonds I promised him that, upon certain conditions, I would ask the members of the Legislature to give him a full and fair hearing of his case. I do not now remember, nor have I time to recall exactly what the conditions were, nor whether they were completely performed; but there can be, in no case, any harm his having a full and fair hearing, and I sincerely wish it may be given him. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: December 10, 1862
In answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 17th of July last, requesting the communication of correspondence relating to the arrest of a part of the crew of the brig Sumter, at Tangier, Morocco, I herewith transmit a report from the Secretary of State. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, December 10, 1862

Memorandum:Appointment of Thomas M. Wilmot

Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 10, 1862. To-day Hon. David Wilmot calls and asks that his son Thomas M. Wilmot be appointed a cadet at West-Point. Will be, 18. years of age Aug. 4, 1863. Not particular whether appointed this year or next. I wish to appoint him before I leave here. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 10, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: In conformity to the Law of 16 July 1862, I most cordially recommend that Lieutenant Commander George U. Morris, U.S. Navy, receive a vote of thanks of Congress, for the determined valor and heroism displayed in his defence of the U.S. Sloop of War Cumberland, temporarily under his command, in the Naval engagement at Hampton Roads, on the 8 March 1862, with the Rebel iron-clad Steam Frigate Merrimack. Washington, D.C. ABRAHAM LINCOLN 10 December 1862.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States December 11, 1862
I transmit to the Senate for its consideration with a view to ratification, a Treaty between the United States and the Republic of Liberia, signed at London by the Plenipotentiaries of the parties, on the twenty-first of October, last. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 11th. December, 1862.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 11, 1862
In compliance with your resolution of December 5th, 1862, requesting the President ``to furnish the Senate with all information in his possession touching the late Indian barbarities in the State of Minnesota, and also the evidence in his possession upon which some of the principal actors and head men were tried and condemned to death,'' I have the honor to state, that on receipt of said resolution I transmitted the same to the Secretary of the Interior, accompanied by a note, a copy of which is herewith inclosed, marked ``A.,'' and in response to which I received, through that Department, a letter of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, a copy of which is herewith inclosed, marked ``B.'' I further state, that on the 8th. day of November last I received a long telegraphic dispatch from Major General Pope, at St. Paul, Minnesota, simply announcing the names of the persons sentenced to be hanged. I immediately telegraphed to have transcripts of the records in all the cases forwarded to me, which transcripts, however, did not reach me until two or three days before the present meeting of Congress. Meantime I received, through telegraphic dispatches and otherwise, appeals in behalf of the condemned, appeals for their execution, and expressions of opinion as to proper policy in regard to them, and to the Indians generally in that vicinity, none of which, as I understand, falls within the scope of your inquiry. After the arrival of the transcripts of records, but before I had sufficient opportunity to examine them, I received a joint letter from one of the Senators and two of the Representatives from Minnesota, which contains some statements of fact not found in the records of the trials, and for which reason I herewith transmit a copy, marked ``C.'' I also, for the same reason, inclose a printed memorial of the citizens of St Paul, addressed to me, and forwarded with the letter aforesaid. Anxious to not act with so much clemency as to encourage another outbreak on the one hand, nor with so much severity as to be real cruelty on the other, I caused a careful examination of the records of trials to be made, in view of first ordering the execution of such as had been proved guilty of violating females. Contrary to my expectations, only two of this class were found. I then directed a further examination, and a classification of all who were proven to have participated in massacres , as distinguished from participation in battles . This class numbered forty, and included the two convicted of female violation. One of the number is strongly recommended by the Commission which tried them, for commutation to ten years' imprisonment.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) I have ordered the other thirty-nine to be executed on Friday, the 19th. instant. The order was dispatched from here on Monday, the 8th. instant, by a messenger to General Sibley; and a copy of which order is herewith transmitted, marked ``D.'' An abstract of the evidence as to the forty is herewith enclosed, marked ``E.'' To avoid the immense amount of copying, I lay before the Senate the original transcripts of the records of trials, as received by me. This is as full and complete a response to the resolution as it is in my power to make. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

John Speed named within, is a son of a particular friend of mine. Dec. 11. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Maj. Gen. Burnside. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Dec. 12, 1862.
The bearer, Mr. J. G. Nicolay, is, as you know, my private Secretary. Please treat him kindly, while I am sure he will avoid giving you trouble Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 12, 1862.
Fellow-citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives: I have in my possession three valuable swords, formerly the property of Gen. David E. Twiggs, which I now place at the disposal of Congress. They were forwarded to me from New Orleans by Major General Benjamin F. Butler. If they, or any of them, shall be by Congress disposed of in reward or compliment of military service, I think General Butler is entitled to the first consideration. A copy of the General's letter to me, accompanying the swords, is herewith transmitted. ABRAHAM LINCOLN December 12, 1862.

To Fernando Wood
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Fernando Wood December 12, 1862.
My dear Sir Your letter of the 8th. with the accompanying note of same date, was received yesterday. The most important paragraph in the letter, as I consider, is in these words: ``On the 25th. November last I was advised by an authority which I deemed likely to be well informed, as well as reliable and truthful, that the Southern States would send representatives to the next congress, provided that a full and general amnesty should permit them to do so. No guarranties or terms were asked for other than the amnesty referred to.'' I strongly suspect your information will prove to be groundless; nevertheless I thank you for communicating it to me. Understanding the phrase in the paragraph above quoted ``the Southern States would send representatives to the next congress'' to be substantially the same as that ``the people of the Southern States would cease resistance, and would re-inaugerate, submit to, and maintain the national authority, within the limits of such states under the Constitution of the United States,'' I say, that in such case, the war would cease on the part of the United States; and that, if within a reasonable time ``a full and general amnesty'' were necessary to such end, it would not be withheld. I do not think it would be proper now for me to communicate this, formally or informally, to the people of the Southern States. My belief is that they already know it; and when they choose, if ever, they can communicate with me unequivocally. Nor do I think it proper now to suspend military operations to try any experiment of negotiation. I should, nevertheless, receive with great pleasure the exact information you now have, and also such other as you may in any way obtain. Such information  might be more valuable before the first of January than afterwards. While there is nothing in this letter which I shall dread to see in history, it is, perhaps, better for the present, that it's existence should not become public. I therefore have to request that you will regard it as confidential. Your Obt. Servt A. LINCOLN

