To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 13, 1862
In the list of nominations transmitted to the Senate under date of the 1st instant, Captain Wm. M. Glendy, U.S. Navy, was included therein for promotion to the grade of commodore. Since submitting this nomination it appears that this officer was ineligible for the advancement to which he had been nominated, in consequence of his age, being sixty-two on the 23d of May, 1862, and under the law of 21 December, 1861, should, had this fact been known to the Navy Department, have been transferred to the retired list on the day when he completed sixty-two years. The nomination of Captain Glendy is accordingly withdrawn. It is due to this officer to state that at the period of the passage of the law of December, 1861, he was, and still is, absent on duty on a foreign station, and the certificate of his age, required by the Navy Department, was only received a few days since. Washington, D.C., 13 December, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 13, 1862.
Will the Secretary of War please direct that Mr. Thoroughman may be disposed of at the discretion of Abram Jonas and Henry Asbury of Quincy, Ill., both of whom I know to be loyal and sensible men? A. LINCOLN. December 13, 1862.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Simon Cameron Executive Mansion, Harrisburg, Pa. Washington, Dec. 14, 1862.
Please come to Washington so soon as you conveniently can. A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major-General Curtis, Saint Louis, Mo.: December 14, 1862.
If my friend Dr. William Fithian, of Danville, Ill., should call on you, please give him such facilities as you consistently can about recovering the remains of a step-son and matters connected therewith. A. LINCOLN.

To John G. Nicolay
War Department. John G. Nicolay, Headquarters: [December 14, 1862]
What news have you? A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

This letter being written by the U.S. District Attorney I have concluded to grant the pardon requested. A. LINCOLN. Dec. 15. 1862

To Isaac R. Diller
December 15, 1862
Captain Dahlgren, of the U.S. Navy, having tested, to some extent, the new powder mentioned within, and having expressed the opinion that a fuller test should be made, which he thinks cannot be satisfactorily done with less than one thousand pounds, I agree to the within terms, as modified by what is written below. The quantity of powder produced for the test may be more, but not less than one thousand pounds, and the sum to be paid for preparing this quantity, shall not be more than the actual cost, nor more than two dollars per pound, nor in the aggregate more than five thousand dollars. When the officers, or other skilled person or persons, I shall select to make the test, shall advise me that in their opinion, the powder possesses all the advantages represented within, and that it has no important fault, I will advise the payment of the one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, for the transfer to the United States, the secret of composing and making said. powder, and the exclusive right, within the United States, of making, using, and vending it to others, to be used. I only promise to advise the payment, because I have not the money at my control which I could, by law, absolutely promise to pay. December 15. 1862. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Washington, Sir: Dec. 15, 1862.
Hon. Mr. Covode wishes Col. Crossman to be made a Brigadier General, and I wish to oblige him if it can be consistently done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Washington City, D.C. Majr. Gen. Burnside Dec. 16 1862
Your despatch about Gen. Stahl, is received. Please ascertain from Gen. Sigel, & his old corps, whether Stahl or Schurz is preferable, & telegraph the result, and I will act immediately. After all I shall be governed by your preference. A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Majr. Gen. Curtis Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Dec. 16. 1862.
N. W. Watkins, of Jackson, Mo. (who is half brother to Henry Clay) writes me that a Col. of ours has driven him from his home at Jackson. Will you please look into the case, and restore the old man to his home, if the public interest will admit? A. LINCOLN

To Henry H. Sibley
Brigadier General H. H. Sibley Executive Mansion, St. Paul, Minnesota. Washington, Dec. 16. 1862
As you suggest, let the executions fixed for Friday, the nineteenth (19th.) instant, be postponed to, and be done on, Friday the twentysixth (26th.) instant. A. LINCOLN Private Operator please send this very carefully and accurately. A. L.

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Executive Mansion, Major General Burnside Washington, December 17, 1862.
George Patten says he was a class-mate of yours and was in the same regiment of artillery. Have you a place you would like to put him in? and if so what is it? A. LINCOLN.

To Abraham C. Corder
Abraham C. Corsey, of 7th. Ills. Vols. Grand Junction, Miss. Dec. 17. 1862
Your despatch of yesterday received. Not now. A. LINCOLN

To John J. Crittenden, John W. Crisfield, and William A. Hall
Hon. J. J. Crittenden Executive Mansion, `` J. W. Crisfield Washington, `` W. A. Hall. Dec. 17. 1862.
Gentlemen: Your note of to-day asking me to designate a time when I can receive you as a committee, is at hand. Let 10. A.M. to-morrow be the time. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Executive Mansion, Major-General Curtis: Washington, December 17, 1862.
Could the civil authority be reintroduced into Missouri in lieu of the military to any extent, with advantage and safety? A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum Concerning William H. Johnson
December 17, 1862
I decline to sign the within, because it does not state the thing quite to my liking. The colored man William Johnson came with me from Illinois, and I would be glad for him to be obliged, if he can be consistently with the public service; but I can not make an order about it, nor a request which might, in some sort, be construed as an order. A. LINCOLN. Dec. 17, 1862

To Jacob Collamer
Hon. Jacob Collamer. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Dec. 18. 1862.
I will see the Committee named, at 7 P.M. to-day. A. LINCOLN

To Hamilton R. Gamble
Gov. Gamble Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo Washington, Dec. 18, 1862.
It is represented to me that the enrolled militia alone would now maintain law and order in all the counties of your State North of the Missouri river. If so, all other forces there, might be removed South of the river, or out of the State. Please post yourself, and give me your opinion upon this subject. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 18, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit a copy of a despatch to the Secretary of State from Mr. Adams, United States Minister at London, and of the correspondence to which it refers, between that gentleman and Mr. Panizzi, the Principal Librarian of the British Museum, relative to certain valuable publications presented to the Library of Congress. Washington, 18 December 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I wish this appointment to be made if it can be done consistently. Executive Mansion A. LINCOLN Dec. 18, 1862.

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Washington, December 19, 1862.
Major-General Burnside: Come of course, if in your own judgment it is safe to do so. A. LINCOLN.

To Samuel R. Curtis
Majr. Gen. Curtis Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Dec. 19, 1862
Hon. Hall,  M.C. here, tells me, & Gov. Gamble Telegraphs me, that quiet can be maintained in all the counties North of the Missouri river, by the enrolled militia. Confer with Gov. Gamble, and telegraph me. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase

Secretary of the Treasury, please do not go out of town. December 20, 1862. A. LINCOLN.

To Thomas J. Henderson
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. T.J. Henderson. December 20, 1862.
My dear Sir:--- Your letter of the 8th to Hon. William Kellogg has just been shown me. You can scarcely overestimate the pleasure it would give me to oblige you, but nothing is operating so ruinously upon us everywhere as ``absenteeism.'' It positively will not do for me to grant leaves of absence in cases not sufficient to procure them under the regular rules. It would astonish you to know the extent of the evil of ``absenteeism.'' We scarcely have more than half the men we are paying on the spot for service anywhere. Yours very truly, A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of Henry W. Streeter

I want to oblige Mr. Speaker Grow in this case if it can consistently be done. A. LINCOLN Dec. 20. 1862.

To William H. Seward and Salmon P. Chase
(COPY) Hon. William H. Seward, & Executive Mansion, Hon. Salmon P. Chase. Washington, December 20. 1862.
Gentlemen: You have respectively tendered me your resignations, as Secretary of State, and Secretary of the Treasury of the United States. I am apprised of the circumstances which may render this course personally desireable to each of you; but, after most anxious consideration, my deliberate judgment is, that the public interest does not admit of it. I therefore have to request that you will resume the duties of your Departments respectively. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN. P.S. Same as above sent to Gov. Chase A L. P.S. Same as above sent to Gov. Seward. A L. Note---Postscripts, like the above are to respective letters.

Congratulations to the Army of the Potomac
Executive Mansion, Washington, December 22, 1862.
To the Army of the Potomac: I have just read your Commanding General's preliminary report of the battle of Fredericksburg. Although you were not successful, the attempt was not an error, nor the failure other than an accident. The courage with which you, in an open field, maintained the contest against an entrenched foe, and the consummate skill and success with which you crossed and re-crossed the river, in face of the enemy, show that you possess all the qualities of a great army, which will yet give victory to the cause of the country and of popular government. Condoling with the mourners for the dead, and sympathizing with the severely wounded, I congratulate you that the number of both is comparatively so small. I tender to you, officers and soldiers, the thanks of the nation. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To John A. Dix
Executive Mansion, Major Gen: Dix Washington, December 22, 1862.
Owing to extreme pressure of business, I have neglected for a week to write this note. General Busteed is with you. I bespeak for him your kindest consideration. His case is peculiar. Without much military experience he has entered the service from purely patriotic motives. Please assign him the position best adapted to his case, which may be within your power. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To William B. Franklin and William F. Smith
Major General Franklin & Executive Mansion, Major General Smith Washington, Dec. 22. 1862.
Yours of the 20th. suggesting a plan of operations for the Army of the Potomac, is received. I have hastily read the plan, and shall yet try to give it more deliberate consideration, with the aid of military men. Meanwhile let me say it seems to me to present the old questions of preference between the line of the Peninsula, and the line you are now upon. The difficulties you point out as pertaining to the Fredericksburg line are obvious and palpable. But now, as heretofore, if you go to James River, a large part of the army must remain on or near the Fredericksburg line, to protect Washington. It is the old difficulty. When I saw Gen. Franklin at Harrison's Landing on James River last July, I can not be mistaken in saying that he distinctly advised the bringing of the Army away from there  Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. December 22, 1862
In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the 15th. instant, requesting a copy of the Report of the Honorable Reverdy Johnson, I transmit a communication from the Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied. Washington, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. 22nd. December, 1862.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, December 23, 1862.
Dear Sir: Unless you know some strong objection, please send me a nomination for Cuthbert Bullitt as collector of the customs at New Orleans. I wish to do this at once. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Fanny McCullough
Executive Mansion, Dear Fanny Washington, December 23, 1862.
It is with deep grief that I learn of the death of your kind and brave Father; and, especially, that it is affecting your young heart beyond what is common in such cases. In this sad world of ours, sorrow comes to all; and, to the young, it comes with bitterest agony, because it takes them unawares. The older have learned to ever expect it. I am anxious to afford some alleviation of your present distress. Perfect relief is not possible, except with time. You can not now realize that you will ever feel better. Is not this so? And yet it is a mistake. You are sure to be happy again. To know this, which is certainly true, will make you some less miserable now. I have had experience enough to know what I say; and you need only to believe it, to feel better at once. The memory of your dear Father, instead of an agony, will yet be a sad sweet feeling in your heart, of a purer, and holier sort than you have known before. Please present my kind regards to your afflicted mother. Your sincere friend A. LINCOLN. Miss. Fanny McCullough.

To Members of the Cabinet
Executive Mansion, Washington, December 23, 1862.
Gentleman of the Cabinet A bill for an act entitled ``An Act for the admission of the State of `West-Virginia' into the Union, and for other purposes,'' has passed the House of Representatives, and the Senate, and has been duly presented to me for my action. I respectfully ask of each [of] you, an opinion in writing, on the following questions, towit: 1st. Is the said Act constitutional? 2d. Is the said Act expedient? Your Obt. Servt. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To John G. Nicolay

Mr. Nicolay, please run over this & tell me what is in it. Dec. 23, 1862. A.L.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I think Senator Henderson should be obliged in this case. Dec. 23, 1862 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 23, 1862.
I really wish the writer of this letter---Uri Manly---appointed a Quarter-Master, or Commissary. Sec. of War please do not overlook this. A. LINCOLN Dec. 23. 1862.

To Francis Joseph I
December 24, 1862
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Imperial Royal Majesty Francis Joseph I, Emperor of Austria, &c., &c., &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 28th. of October, last, announcing the marriage of His Imperial Highness the Archduke Charles Louis, Your Majesty's brother, to Her Royal Highness, the Princess Mary Annunziata, sister of His Majesty the King of the Two Sicilies. I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event and pray Your Majesty to accept my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping! Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, December 24, 1862. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 24, 1862
To the Senate and House of Representatives. I transmit, for the consideration of Congress, a Report from the Secretary of State on the subject of Consular Pupils. Washington ABRAHAM LINCOLN December 24. 1862

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, December 24, 1862.
To-day Hon. Mr. Cox calls, and asks that Col. Samuel A. Gilbert, of Ohio be a Brigadier Genl. He is now near Lexington, Ky. Has been in service from the beginning. Papers on file in his favor from Gen. Wright & others. He also says a word for Col. Wood, as also does Senator Sherman. Papers on file in this case also.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, December 26, 1862
Two Ohio regiments and one Illinois regiment were captured at Hartsville, have been parolled, and are now at Columbus Ohio. This brings the Ohio regiments substantially to their homes. I am strongly impressed with the belief that the Illinois regiment better be sent to Illinois, where it will be recruited and put in good condition, by the time they are exchanged, so as to re-enter the service. They did not misbehave, as I am satisfied; so that they should receive no treatment, nor have anything withheld from them, by way of punishment. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Maj. Gen. Curtis Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Dec. 27. 1862.
Let the order in regard to Dr. McPheters and family be suspended until you hear from me again. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning John J. Key
December 27, 1862
The within, as appears, was written some time ago. On full re-consideration, I can not find sufficient ground to change the conclusion therein arrived at A. LINCOLN Dec. 27. 1862.

To Hamilton R. Gamble
His Excy. Gov. Gamble December 27, 1862
I do not wish to leave the country North of the Missouri to the care of the enrolled militia, except upon the concurrent judgment of yourself and Gen. Curtis. His I have not yet obtained. Confer with him, & I shall be glad to act when you and he agree. A. LINCOLN

To Caleb B. Smith
Hon. Sec. of Interior & Executive Mansion Comr. of Indian Affairs Washington December 27. 1862
Mr DePuy was appointed Indian Agent. Charges were made against him, and another was appointed to the same office. The charges fail in the proof & Mr DePuy's reappointment is sought. But Mr. Daily,  the territorial delegate, asks that the other appointee be not removed. Please call Mr. Daily & Mr DePuy before you & give them a fair hearing, decide what is proper to be done & I will do it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Hiram Walbridge
General Hiram Walbridge Executive Mansion My Dear Sir Washington December 28th. 1862.
I have twice declined to see you on the ground that I understood the object of your desired interview, and that it was a matter of embarrassment to me. My real respect and esteem for you makes me unwilling to leave the matter in quite so abrupt a form. My embarrassment is that the place you seek not selfishly I think, is greedily sought by many others; and there is sure to be opposition both fierce and plausible to the appointment of any one who up to this time has not been in the military service. What answer to it will I make? Shall I say I did it for political influence? That will be the more loudly objected to. I need not point out to you where this objection will come from. It will come from your competitors; it will come from party spirit; it will come from indignant members of Congress who will perceive in it an attempt of mine to set a guardian over them. The longer I can get along without a formal appointment the better. Yours Very truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General B. F. Butler Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, December 29, 1862.
I believe you have a family, and I dislike to deprive you of an early visit to them. But I really wish to see you at the earliest moment. I am contemplating a peculiar and important service for you, which I think, and hope you will think, is as honorable, as it is important. I wish to confer with you upon it. Please come immediately upon your arrival at New-York. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Washington City, D.C. Major General Burnside December 30, 1862 [3:30 P.M.]
I have good reason for saying you must not make a general movement of the army without letting me know. A. LINCOLN

To Hamilton R. Gamble
Order No. 416.  His Excncy. Gov. Gamble Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, December 30, 1862.
Inclosed is an order, substantially, and I believe exactly, such as I directed to be made nearly a month ago. After a good deal of reflection, I concluded that it was better to make a rule for the practical matter in hand, (the removal of officers and acceptance of resignations) than to decide a general question, towit, whether the force are State troops , which, while it might embrace the practical question mentioned, might also be the nest in which forty other troublesome questions would be hatched. I would rather meet them as they come, than before they come, trusting that some of them may not come at all. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

Preliminary Draft of Final Emancipation Proclamation
[December 30, 1862]
Whereas, on the twenty second day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two, a proclamation was issued by the President of the United States, containing among other things the following, to wit: [Blank space for insertion] Now therefore I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, by virtue of the power in me vested, as Commander-in-Chief, of the Army, and Navy of the United States in time of actual armed rebellion against the authority and government of the United States, and as a proper and necessary war measure for suppressing said rebellion, do, on this first day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty three, and in accordance with my intention so to do, publicly proclaimed for one hundred days as aforesaid, order and designate as the States and parts of States in which the people thereof respectively are this day in rebellion against the United States, the following to wit: Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, except the Parishes of [Blank space for insertion] Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia, except the forty-eight counties designated as West Virginia, and also the counties of [Blank space for insertion] And by virtue of the power, and for the purpose aforesaid, I do order,  and declare, that all persons held as slaves within said designated States, and parts of States, are, and henceforward forever shall be free; and that the Executive government of the United States, including the military and naval authorities thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of said persons and  will do no act, or acts to repress said persons, or any of them, in any suitable efforts they may make for their actual freedom. And I hereby appeal to  the people so declared to be free, to abstain from all disorder, tumult, and violence, unless in necessary self defence; and  in all cases, when allowed, to labor faithfully, for  wages. And I further declare, and make known, that such persons of suitable condition, will be received into the armed service of the United States to garrison and defend forts, positions, stations, and other places, and to man vessels of all sorts in said service.

To John A. Dix
Major Gen. Dix Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, Dec. 31, 1862.
I hear not a word about the Congressional election of which you and I corresponded. Time nearly up. A. LINCOLN

Opinion on the Admission of West Virginia into the Union
[December 31, 1862]
The consent of the Legislature of Virginia is constitutionally necessary to the bill for the admission of West-Virginia becoming a law. A body claiming to be such Legislature has given it's consent. We can not well deny that it is such, unless we do so upon the outside knowledge that the body was chosen at elections, in which a majority of the qualified voters of Virginia did not participate. But it is a universal practice in the popular elections in all these states, to give no legal consideration whatever to those who do not choose to vote, as against the effect of the votes of those, who do choose to vote. Hence it is not the qualified voters, but the qualified voters, who choose to vote , that constitute the political power of the state. Much less than to non-voters, should any consideration be given to those who did not vote, in this case : because it is also matter of outside knowledge, that they were not merely neglectful of their rights under, and duty to, this government, but were also engaged in open rebellion against it. Doubtless  among these non-voters were some Union men whose voices were smothered by the more numerous secessionists; but we know too little of their number to assign them any appreciable value. Can this government stand, if it indulges constitutional constructions by which men in open rebellion against it, are to be accounted, man for man, the equals of those who maintain their loyalty to it? Are they to be accounted even better citizens, and more worthy of consideration, than those who merely neglect to vote? If so, their treason against the constitution, enhances their constitutional value! Without braving these absurd conclusions, we can not deny that the body which consents to the admission of West-Virginia, is the Legislature of Virginia. I  do not think the plural form of the words ``Legislatures'' and ``States'' in the phrase of the constitution ``without the consent of the Legislatures of the States concerned &c'' has any reference to the new State concerned. That plural form sprang from the contemplation of two or more old States contributing to form a new one. The idea that the new state was in danger of being admitted without its own consent, was not provided against, because it was not thought of, as I conceive. It is said, the devil takes care of his own. Much more should a good spirit---the spirit of the Constitution and the Union---take care of it's own. I think it can not do less, and live. But is the admission into the Union, of West-Virginia, expedient. This, in my general view, is more a question for Congress, than for the Executive. Still I do not evade it. More than on anything else, it depends on whether the admission or rejection of the new state would under all the circumstances tend the more strongly to the restoration of the national authority throughout the Union. That which helps most in this direction is the most expedient at this time. Doutless those in remaining Virginia would return to the Union, so to speak, less reluctantly without the division of the old state than with it; but I think we could not save as much in this quarter by rejecting the new state, as we should lose by it in West-Virginia. We can scarcely dispense with the aid of West-Virginia in this struggle; much less can we afford to have her against us, in congress and in the field. Her brave and good men regard her admission into the Union as a matter of life and death. They have been true to the Union under very severe trials. We have so acted as to justify their hopes; and we can not fully retain their confidence, and co-operation, if we seem to break faith with them. In fact, they could not do so much for us, if they would. Again, the admission of the new state, turns that much slave soil to free; and thus, is a certain, and irrevocable encroachment upon the cause of the rebellion. The division of a State is dreaded as a precedent. But a measure made expedient by a war, is no precedent for times of peace. It is said that the admission of West-Virginia, is secession, and tolerated only because it is our secession. Well, if we call it by that name, there is still difference enough between secession against the constitution, and secession in favor of the constitution. I believe the admission of West-Virginia into the Union is expedient.

To Solomon Foote

Hon. S. Foote Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Washington, 1863 Mrs. L. requests me to invite you to accompany us to the opera this evening. If you accept, be here at half past 7 P.M. Please answer by bearer. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

Emancipation Proclamation
January 1, 1863
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, on the twentysecond day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty two, a proclamation was issued by the President of the United States, containing, among other things, the following, towit: ``That on the first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, all persons held as slaves within any State or designated part of a State, the people whereof shall then be in rebellion against the United States, shall be then, thenceforward, and forever free; and the Executive Government of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons, and will do no act or acts to repress such persons, or any of them, in any efforts they may make for their actual freedom. ``That the Executive will, on the first day of January aforesaid, by proclamation, designate the States and parts of States, if any, in which the people thereof, respectively, shall then be in rebellion against the United States; and the fact that any State, or the people thereof, shall on that day be, in good faith, represented in the Congress of the United States by members chosen thereto at elections wherein a majority of the qualified voters of such State shall have participated, shall, in the absence of strong countervailing testimony, be deemed conclusive evidence that such State, and the people thereof, are not then in rebellion against the United States.'' Now, therefore I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, by virtue of the power in me vested as Commander-in-Chief, of the Army and Navy of the United States in time of actual armed rebellion against authority and government of the United States, and as a fit and necessary war measure for suppressing said rebellion, do, on this first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty three, and in accordance with my purpose so to do publicly proclaimed for the full period of one hundred days, from the day first above mentioned, order and designate as the States and parts of States wherein the people thereof respectively, are this day in rebellion against the United States, the following, towit: Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, (except the Parishes of St. Bernard, Plaquemines, Jefferson, St. Johns, St. Charles, St. James[,] Ascension, Assumption, Terrebonne, Lafourche, St. Mary, St. Martin, and Orleans, including the City of New-Orleans) Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, South-Carolina, North-Carolina, and Virginia, (except the fortyeight counties designated as West Virginia, and also the counties of Berkley, Accomac, Northampton, Elizabeth-City, York, Princess Ann, and Norfolk, including the cities of Norfolk & Portsmouth [)]; and which excepted parts are, for the present, left precisely as if this proclamation were not issued. And by virtue of the power, and for the purpose aforesaid, I do order and declare that all persons held as slaves within said designated States, and parts of States, are, and henceforward shall be free; and that the Executive government of the United States, including the military and naval authorities thereof, will recognize and maintain the freedom of said persons. And I hereby enjoin upon the people so declared to be free to abstain from all violence, unless in necessary self-defence; and I recommend to them that, in all cases when allowed, they labor faithfully for reasonable wages. And I further declare and make known, that such persons of suitable condition, will be received into the armed service of the United States to garrison forts, positions, stations, and other places, and to man vessels of all sorts in said service. And upon this act, sincerely believed to be an act of justice, warranted by the Constitution, upon military necessity, I invoke the considerate judgment of mankind, and the gracious favor of Almighty God. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. Done at the City of Washington, this first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-seventh. [L.S.] By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

Endorsement Concerning John McNeil
[c. January 1, 1863?]
531 citizens justifying Gen McNeil for hanging the ten men, & asking that he shall not be surrendered to Jeff Davis 146, more names.

To Henry W. Halleck
Major Gen. Halleck Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, January 1. 1863.
Gen. Burnside wishes to cross the Rappahannock with his army, but his Grand Division commanders all oppose the movement. If in such a difficulty as this you do not help, you fail me precisely in the point for which I sought your assistance. You know what Gen. Burnside's plan is; and it is my wish that you go with him to the ground, examine it as far as practicable, confer with the officers, getting their judgment, and ascertaining their temper, in a word, gather all the elements for forming a judgment of your own; and then tell Gen. Burnside that you do approve, or that you do not approve his plan. Your military skill is useless to me, if you will not do this. Yours very truly A LINCOLN [ Endorsement ] Withdrawn, because considered harsh by Gen. Halleck. A.L. Jan. 1. 1862 

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, Jany. 1, 1863.
Yesterday a piteous appeal was made to me by an old lady of genteel appearance, saying she had, with what she thought sufficient assurance that she would not be disturbed by the government, fitted up the two South Divisions of the old ``Duff Green'' building in order to take boarders, and has boarders already in it, & others, including M.C.s. engaged, and that now she is ordered to be out of it by Saturday the 3rd. Inst.; and that, independently of the ruin it brings on her, by her lost out-lay, she neither has, nor can find another shelter for her own head. I know nothing about it myself, but promised to bring it to your notice. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Executive Mansion, Major General Curtis Washington, January 2, 1863.
My dear Sir: Yours of Dec. 29th. by the hand of Mr. Strong is just received. The day I telegraphed you suspending the order in relation to Dr. McPheters, he, with Mr. Bates, the Attorney General, appeared before me, and left with me a copy of the order mentioned. The Dr. also showed me the copy of an oath which he said he had taken, which is, indeed, very strong, and specific. He also verbally assured me that he had constantly prayed in church for the President and Government, as he had always done before the present war. In looking over the recitals in your order, I do not see that this matter of the prayer, as he states it, is negatived; nor that any violation of his oath is charged; nor, in fact, that any thing specific is alledged against him. The charges are all general ---that he has a rebel wife & rebel relations, that he sympathizes with rebels, and that he exercises rebel influence. Now, after talking with him, I tell you frankly, I believe he does sympathize with the rebels; but the question remains whether such a man, of unquestioned good moral character, who has taken such an oath as he has, and can not even be charged of violating it, and who can be charged with no other specific act or omision, can, with safety to the government be exiled, upon the suspicion of his secret sympathies. But I agree that this must be left to you who are on the spot; and if, after all, you think the public good requires his removal, my suspension of the order is withdrawn, only with this qualification that the time during the suspension, is not to be counted against him. I have promised him this. But I must add that the U.S. government must not, as by this order, undertake to run the churches. When an individual, in a church or out of it, becomes dangerous to the public interest, he must be checked; but let the churches, as such take care of themselves. It will not do for the U.S. to appoint Trustees, Supervisors, or other agents for the churches. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN P.S. The committee composed of Messrs. Yeatman & Filley (Mr. Brodhead not attending) has presented your letter and the memorial of sundry citizens. On the whole subject embraced, exercise your best judgment, with a sole view to the public interest, and I will not interfere without hearing you.  A. LINCOLN Jan. 3, 1863.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 2, 1863
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I submit to Congress the expediency of extending to other Departments of the Government, the authority conferred on the President by the 8th. Section of the Act of the 8th. of May, 1792, to appoint a person to temporarily discharge the duties of Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury and Secretary of War, in case of the death, absence from the seat of Government or sickness of either of those officers. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington 2nd. January 1862 

Endorsement

Let this woman have her boy out of Old Capitol Prison. January 3, 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt
Judge-Advocate-General: Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir: Washington, January 3, 1863.
The bearer of this [Benjamin N. Martin]  makes an appeal in behalf of General Benham. I have told him that if you can carefully examine the case, and therefore do advise the restoration of General Benham [ sic ].  I do not order you to do this, but leave it to yourself. I send the papers in my possession. Yours, very truly, A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. January 3, 1863
I transmit to the Senate for consideration with a view to ratification, a Convention for the mutual adjustment of claims between the United States and Ecuador, signed by the respective plenipotentiaries of the two Governments, in Guayaquil, on the 25th. November, ultimo. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 3 January, 1863.

To Gideon Welles
Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, Jan'y 4, 1863.
As many persons, who come well recommended for loyalty and service to the Union cause, and who are refugees from rebel oppression in the State of Virginia, make application to me for authority and permission to remove their families and property to protection within the Union lines, by means of our armed gunboats on the Potomac River and Chesapeake Bay, you are hereby requested to hear and consider all such applications, and to grant such assistance to this class of persons as in your judgment their merits may render proper, and as may, in each case, be consistent with the perfect and complete efficiency of the naval service and with military expediency. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Hon. Gideon Welles Secretary of the Navy.

To Samuel R. Curtis
Executive Mansion, Major General Curtis Washington, January 5, 1863.
My dear Sir: I am having a good deal of trouble with Missouri matters, and I now sit down to write you particularly about it. One class of friends believe in greater severity, and another in greater leniency, in regard to arrests, banishments, and assessments. As usual in such cases, each questions the other's motives. On the one hand it is insisted that Gov. Gamble's Unionism, at most, is not better than a secondary spring of action---that hunkerism, and a wish for political influence, stand before Unionism, with him. On the other hand, it is urged that arrests, banishments, and assessments are made more for private malice, revenge, and pecuniary interest, than for the public good. This morning I was told by a gentleman who, I have no doubt believes what he says, that in one case of assessments for ten thousand dollars, the different persons who paid, compared receipts, and found they had paid thirty thousand dollars. If this be true, the inference is that the collecting agents pocketed the odd twenty thousand. And true or not, in the instance, nothing but the sternest necessity can justify the making and maintaining of a system so liable to such abuses. Doubtless the necessity  for the making of the system in Missouri did exist, and whether it continues for the maintainance of it, is now a practical, and very important question. Some days ago Governor Gamble telegraphed me asking that the assessments, outside of St. Louis county, might be suspended, as they already have been within it; and this morning all the members of congress here from Missouri, but one, lay a paper before me asking the same thing. Now, my belief is that Gov. Gamble is an honest and true man, not less so than yourself; that you and he could confer together on this, and other Missouri questions with great advantage to the public; that each knows something which the other does not, and that, acting together, you could about double your stock of pertinent information. May I not hope that you and he will attempt this? I could at once safely do, (or you could safely do without me) whatever  you and he agree upon. There is absolutely no reason why you should not agree. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN P.S. I forgot to say that Hon. James S. Rollins, M.C. from one of the Missouri Districts wishes that, upon his personal responsibility, Rev. John M. Robinson, of Columbia, Mo. James L. Matthews of Boone county, Mo, and James L. Stephens, also of Boone county, Mo. may be allowed to return to their respective homes. Major Rollins leaves with me very strong papers from the neighbors of these men, whom he says he knows to be true men. He also says he has many constituents who he thinks are rightfully exiled; but that he thinks these three should be allowed to return. Please look into the case, and oblige Major Rollins if you consistently can.  Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum
January 5, 1863
Major Rollins' three cases of exile. I have, to-day, Jan. 5. 1863, written Gen. Curtis about this. AL.

Memorandum

As to suspending Assessments. Wrote Gen. Curtis to-day Jan. 5. 1863. A.L

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives. January 5, 1863
In compliance with the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 22nd. ultimo, in relation to the alleged interference of our Minister to Mexico in favor of the French, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State and the papers with which it is accompanied. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, January 5, 1863.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General W. S. Rosecrans  Executive Mansion, Murfreesboro, Tenn. Washington, Jan. 5. 186
Your despatch announcing retreat of enemy has just reached here. God bless you, and all with you! Please tender to all, and accept for yourself, the Nation's gratitude for yours, and their, skill, endurance, and dantless courage. A. LINCOLN

To Caleb Russell and Sallie A. Fenton
Executive Mansion, My Good Friends Washington, January 5, 1863
The Honorable Senator Harlan has just placed in my hands your letter of the 27th of December which I have read with pleasure and gratitude. It is most cheering and encouraging for me to know that in the efforts which I have made and am making for the restoration of a righteous peace to our country, I am upheld and sustained by the good wishes and prayers of God's people. No one is more deeply than myself aware that without His favor our highest wisdom is but as foolishness and that our most strenuous efforts would avail nothing in the shadow of His displeasure. I am conscious of no desire for my country's welfare, that is not in consonance with His will, and of no plan upon which we may not ask His blessing.  It seems to me that if there be one subject upon which all good men may unitedly agree, it is imploring the gracious favor of the God of Nations upon the struggles our people are making for the preservation of their precious birthright of civil and religious liberty. Very truly Your friend A. LINCOLN. To Caleb Russell} Sallie A. Fenton}Secretaries

To Mrs. Abraham H. Hoge
Mrs. A. H. Hoge Executive Mansion, Chicago, Illinois. Washington, January 6. 1863.
I am sorry I failed in my former note to make myself understood by you. You send me a commission, which is good as far as it goes; but it fills only one of the three conditions which I stated to you as being indispensable. The remaining conditions are that a Major General must be found who has not already the full complement of Staff-officers, which the law allows to a Major-General, and who is willing to take your son as one of them. Without these I should violate both law, and an indispensable courtesy, to thrust your son, or any one else, upon any Major General's staff. As to Brigadier-Generals, they are not allowed any staff officers with as high rank as Major. If I were to undertake it, I probably could not, in less than a month, nor without a laborious correspondence, find the General entitled by law to have an additional staff officer with the rank of Major, and who is willing [to] take your son as the man. This your son must do this [ sic ] for himself. I hope I now make myself understood Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Alban B. Botsford
Executive Mansion, Washington, Jan. 6. 1863.
Col. Ulmann, calls with Capt. Alban B. Botsford, now of 78th. N.Y. Inftry.---both at National Hotel. Has property in Mississippi and is well acquainted in La. When time comes would like to aid in organizing blacks there.

Memorandum Concerning Meredith Clymer
Executive Mansion, Washington, Jan. 6. 1863.
To-day, Col. Ulmann calls & urges that Dr. Meredith Clymer be appointed one of the new Medical Inspectors. Thinks he is of superior fitness for the place.

To William H. Seward
Executive Mansion, Washington, 6th. January, 1863.
The Secretary of State is directed not to countersign the within contract, or to affix the seal of the United States thereto, but to retain the instrument under advisement. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Green Adams
Executive Mansion, Hon. Green Adams Washington, January 7, 1863.
My dear Sir: In answer to your inquiries of this morning I have to say I am very anxious to have the special force in Kentucky raised and armed. But the changed conduct towards me of some of her members of congress, and the ominous out-givings as to what the Governor and Legislature of Kentucky intend doing, admonish me to consider whether any additional arms I may send there, are not to be turned against the government.  I hope this may clear up on the right side. So far as I can see, Kentucky's sons in the field, are acting loyally and bravely, God bless them! I can not help thinking the mass of her people feel the same way. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To B. Gratz Brown
Hon. B. Gratz Brown Washington, D.C., Jefferson City, Mo. Jan. 7. 1863 [5:30 P.M.]
Yours of to-day just received. The Administration takes no part between it's friends in Mo, of whom, I at least, consider you one; and I have never before had an intimation that appointees there, were interfering, or were inclined to interfere. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major Gen. Dix Washington, D.C., Fort-Monroe, Va Jan. 7, 1863
Do Richmond papers of 6th. say nothing about Vicksburg? or, if anything, what? A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion. Maj Genl Halleck. Washington, January 7th. 1863.
My dear Sir: What think you of forming a reserve Cavalry Corps of, say 6000 for the Army of the Potomac? Might not such a corps be constituted from the Cavalry of Sigels and Slocums corps, with scraps we could pick up here and there? Yours truly, A LINCOLN.

To William A. Hammond
January 7, 1863
Will the Surgeon General please see Rev. Mr. Alvord, and give his opinion to me in writing whether he should be appointed a Chaplain as he desires? A. LINCOLN Jan. 7. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Allow Col. Peyton the additional time required, unless there be reason to the contrary unknown to me. A. LINCOLN Jan. 7. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If it is lawfully competent for me to make the appointments within requested, let it be done at once. A. LINCOLN Jan. 7. 1863.

To Jose M. Acha
January 8, 1863
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Excellency Senor Don Jose M. Acha Constitutional President of the Republic of Bolivia. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter of your Excellency of the 16 August last informing me of your election by the popular suffrage to the Constitutional Presidency of the Republic at the expiration of the Provisional term of service which the national assembly had entrusted to you. I felicitate Your Excellency on this renewed mark of the confidence of the people in your Excellency's administration, and I sincerely hope that under your continued direction of affairs the national prosperity may be greatly enlarged and the happiness of the people secured. The sentiments of friendship expressed by your Excellency are cordially reciprocated. It is equally my desire and study to strengthen the friendly relations which have, happily, always subsisted between our respective countries. The Treaty just exchanged by our respective plenipotentiaries which I will immediately proclaim as the law of the land, will, I am confident, aid us both in giving effect to our good intentions. I beg your Excellency to accept the expressions of my high regard and sincere friendship, and I pray God to have &c. Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. Washington, 8 January, 1863.

Order to Edward Bates
Executive Mansion Ordered by the President: January 8. 1863.
Whereas on the 13th day of November, 1862, it was ordered ``that the Attorney General be charged with the superintendence and direction of all proceedings to be had under the Act of Congress of the 17 of July 1862 entitled ``an Act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, and to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes'' in so far as may concern the seizure, prosecution and condemnation of the estate, property and effects of rebels and traitors as mentioned and provided for in the fifth, sixth, and seventh sections of the said Act of Congress.'' And whereas, since that time it has been ascertained that divers prosecutions have been instituted in the Courts of the United States, for the condemnation of property of rebels and traitors under the Act of Congress of August the 6th 1861, entitled ``an Act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes'' which equally require the superintending care of the Government: Therefore--- It is now, further ordered by the President: That the Attorney General be charged with the superintendence and direction of all proceedings to be had under the said last-mentioned Act (the Act of 1861) as fully in all respects, as under the first-mentioned Act (the Act of 1862). ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Jan. 8. 1863.
I understand Gen. Halleck has sent you a letter of which this is a copy. I approve the letter. I deplore the want of concurrence with you, in opinion by your general officers, but I do not see the remedy. Be cautious, and do not understand that the government, or country, is driving you. I do not yet see how I could profit by changing the command of the A.P. & if I did, I should not wish to do it by accepting the resignation of your commission. Gen. Burnside. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Johnson. Executive Mansion, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, January 8. 1863.
A despatch of yesterday, from Nashville, says ``the body of Capt. Todd of 6th. Ky, brought in to-day.[''] Please tell me what was his Christian name, and whether he was in our service, or that of the enemy. I shall also be glad to have your impression as to the effect the late operations about Murfreesboro, will have on the prospects of Tennessee. A. LINCOLN

To John A. McClernand
Executive Mansion, Major General McClernand Washington, January 8. 1863.
My dear Sir Your interesting communication by the hand of Major Scates is received. I never did ask more, nor ever was willing to accept less, than for all the States, and the people thereof, to take and hold their places, and their rights, in the Union, under the Constitution of the United States. For this alone have I felt authorized to struggle; and I seek neither more nor less now. Still, to use a coarse, but an expressive figure, broken eggs can not be mended. I have issued the emancipation proclamation, and I can not retract it. After the commencement of hostilities I struggled nearly a year and a half to get along without touching the ``institution''; and when finally I conditionally determined to touch it, I gave a hundred days fair notice of my purpose, to all the States and people, within which time they could have turned it wholly aside, by simply again becoming good citizens of the United States. They chose to disregard it, and I made the peremptory proclamation on what appeared to me to be a military necessity. And being made, it must stand. As to the States not included in it, of course they can have their rights in the Union as of old. Even the people of the states included, if they choose, need not to be hurt by it. Let them adopt systems of apprenticeship for the colored people, conforming substantially to the most approved plans of gradual emancipation; and, with the aid they can have from the general government, they may be nearly as well off, in this respect, as if the present trouble had not occurred, and much better off than they can possibly be if the contest continues persistently. As to any dread of my having a ``purpose to enslave, or exterminate, the whites of the South,'' I can scarcely believe that such dread exists. It is too absurd. I believe you can be my personal witness that no man is less to be dreaded for undue severity, in any case. If the friends you mention really wish to have peace upon the old terms, they should act at once. Every day makes the case more difficult. They can so act, with entire safety, so far as I am concerned. I think you would better not make this letter public; but you may rely confidently on my standing by whatever I have said in it. Please write me if any thing more comes to light. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Caleb B. Smith
Executive Mansion, Hon. Caleb B. Smith Washington, January 8. 1863.
My dear Sir: I wish you would tell me in writing, exactly what you did promise Watt about going to Europe last Spring. If it was in writing send me a copy; if merely verbal, write it as accurately as you can from memory, and please send it to me at once. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir, Washington, January 8, 1863.
We shall need all the men we can get. Is there a special reason why Col. Peyton should not finish up his Regiment? If there is such special reason please tell me what it is. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum Concerning William S. Pryor, J. O'Hara, and Thomas L. Jones
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 9, 1863.
To-day Mr. Senator Powell calls and demands the unconditional release William S. Pryor, of New-castle, Henry Co. Ky J. O'Hara, of Covington, Ky, who have been imprisoned at Camp Chase, & are now on parol at Cincinnati, not allowed to go to Kentucky. Col. Thomas L. Jones has a similar case except he has the previleges of New-port.

Memorandum Concerning Sandwich Islands

I have a new reason for holding on to this a little while. Jan. 9. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 9, 1863
To the Senate and House of Representatives. I transmit for the consideration of Congress, and with a view to the adoption of such measures in relation to the subject of it as may be deemed expedient, a copy of a note of the 8th instant, addressed to the Secretary of State by the Minister Resident of the Hanseatic Republics accredited to this Government, concerning an International Agricultural Exhibition to be held next summer in the City of Hamburg. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, 9th January, 1863.

To William H. Seward
January 9, 1863
Dr. Smith, mentioned within, is an intimate personal friend of mine; and I have unconsciously superseded him, if at all. Sec. of State please inform me how it is A. LINCOLN Jan. 9. 1863.

To Gideon Welles
My dear Sir Executive Mansion Jan. 9, 1863
Capt Boggs of the Navy, thinks he ought to be recommended to Congress for a vote of thanks, and I am anxious to give the due reward of merit in all cases. Please give special attention to his case, & let me know the result Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To David Wilmot
Executive Mansion, Washington, Jan. 9, 1863.
Hon. D. Wilmot, I will do that. A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Maj. Gen. Curtis Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Jany. 10. 1863.
I understand there is considerable trouble with the slaves in Missouri. Please do your best to keep peace on the question for two or three weeks, by which time we hope to do something here towards settling the question, in Missouri. A. LINCOLN

To William A. Hammond

Respectfully submitted to Surgeon General, for his opinion whether Mr. Bushnell should be appointed, as recommended. Jany. 10. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Johnson. Executive Mansion, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, January 10, 1863.
Yours received. I presume the remains of Capt. Todd are in the hands of his family friends, & I wish to give no order on the subject. But I do wish your opinion of the effects of the late battles about Murfreesboro, upon the prospects of Tennessee. A. LINCOLN

To Jacob Collamer

If not going to church please call & see me at once; & if to church, please call as soon after, as convenient A. LINCOLN Jan. 11. 1863.

To William A. Buckingham
Executive Mansion, Governor: Washington, January 12, 1863.
It is with feelings of sincere pleasure and gratitude that I acknowledge the receipt of your kind favor of the 2nd. of January, conveying the Resolutions the Legislature of Connecticut, approved December 24th, 1862. Be assured, my dear sir, that I am deeply gratified by this new proof of the loyal and patriotic devotion of the people of your state, and that I most gratefully appreciate their expressions towards myself, which are at once so generous and so kind. I have the honor to be Very truly Your Obt. Servt. His Excellency A. LINCOLN The Governor of Connecticut

To Joseph Holt
War Department, Washington City, January 12, 1863.
The Judge-Advocate-General is instructed to revise the proceedings of the court-martial in the case of Maj.-Gen. Fitz John Porter, and to report fully upon any legal questions that may have arisen in them, and upon the bearing of the testimony in reference to the charges and specifications exhibited against the accused and upon which he was tried. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion Dear Sir. Washington, January 12, 1863.
I intended proposing to you this morning, and forgot it, that Schurz and Stahl should both be Maj. Genls. Schurz to take Sigel's old corps, and Stahl to command Cavalry. They, together with Sigel, are our sincere friends; and while so much may seem rather large, any thing less is too small. I think it better be done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, January 12, 1863.
Dr. Thomas Sim, has been dismissed from the service for being in this City contrary to a general order. His afflicted wife assures me he had a pass from Gen. Sickles, commander of his Division, for 48 hours, and that within the 48 hours he was refused the 15 days absence he asked, and reported to Gen. Sickles, who extended his time so as to take the Dr. with him, and that he reached the army in less than twelve additional hours, to the original 48, allowed him. Please see the lady. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney General, please make out and send me a pardon in this case. A. LINCOLN Jan. 13. 1863.

To John A. Dix
Private & confidential Major General Dix Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, January 14, 1863.
The proclamation has been issued. We were not succeeding---at best, were progressing too slowly---without it. Now, that we have it, and bear all the disadvantage of it, (as we do bear some in certain quarters) we must also take some benefit from it, if practicable. I therefore will thank you for your well considered opinion whether Fortress-Monroe, and York-Town, one or both, could not, in whole or in part, be garrisoned by colored troops, leaving the white forces now necessary at those places, to be employed elsewhere. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: January 14, 1863
The Secretary of State has submitted to me a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 5th. instant, which has been delivered to him, and which is in the following words: ``Resolved, That the Secretary of State be requested to communicate to this House if not in his judgment incompatible with the public interest, why our Minister in New Granada has not presented his credentials to the actual government of that country. Also, the reasons for which Senor Murillo is not recognized by the United States as the diplomatic representative of the Mosquera government of that country. Also what negotiations have been had, if any, with General Herran as the Representative of Ospina's Government in New Granada since it went out of existence.'' On the 12th. day of December 1846, a treaty of amity, peace and concord was concluded between the United States of America and the Republic of New Granada, which is still in force. On the 7th. day of December 1847, General Pedro Alcantara Herran, who had been duly accredited, was received here as the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of that Republic. On the 30th. day of August, 1849, Senor Don Rafael Rivas was received by this Government as Charge d'Affaires of the same Republic. On the 5th. day of December, 1851, a Consular Convention was concluded between that Republic and the United States, which Treaty was signed on behalf of the Republic of Granada by the same Senor Rivas. This treaty is still in force. On the 27th. of April, 1852, Senor Don Victoriano de Diego Paredes was received as Charge d'Affaires of the Republic of New Granada. On the 20th. of June, 1855, General Pedro Alcantara Herran was again received as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary, duly accredited by the Republic of New Granada, and he has ever since remained, under the same credentials, as the representative of that Republic near the Government of the United States. On the 10th. of September, 1857, a Claims Convention was concluded between the United States and the Republic of Granada. This Convention is still in force, and has in part been executed. In May, 1858, the Constitution of the Republic was remodelled and the nation assumed the political title of ``The Granadian Confederacy.'' This fact was formally announced to this Government, but without any change in their representative here. Previous to the fourth day of March, 1861, a revolutionary war against the Republic of New Granada, which had thus been recognized and treated with by the United States, broke out in New Granada, assuming to set up a new Government under the name of the United States of Columbia. This war has had various vicissitudes, sometimes favorable, sometimes adverse to the revolutionary movement. The revolutionary organization has hitherto been simply a military provisionary power, and no definitive constitution of Government has yet been established in New Granada in place of that organized by the Constitution of 1858. The Minister of the United States to the Granadian Confederacy, who was appointed on the 29th. day of May, 1861, was directed, in view of the occupation of the capital by the revolutionary party and of the uncertainty of the civil war, not to present his credentials to either the Government of the Granadian Confederacy or to the provisional Military Government, but to conduct his affairs informally as is customary in such cases, and to report the progress of events and await the instructions of this Government. The advices which have been received from him, have not hitherto been sufficiently conclusive to determine me to recognize the revolutionary Government. General Herran being here with full authority from the Government of New Granada, which had been so long recognized by the United States, I have not received any representative from the Revolutionary government, which has not yet been recognized, because such a proceeding would in itself be an act of recognition. Official communications have been had on various incidental and occasional questions with General Herran as the Minister Plenipotentiary and Envoy Extraordinary of the Granadian Confederacy---but in no other character; no definitive measure or proceeding has resulted from these communications, and a communication of them at present would not, in my judgment, be compatible with the public interest. Washington, January 14, 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To John G. Nicolay

Will Mr. Nicolay, please make out the papers in this case. Jan. 14. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
January 14, 1863
As I understand the Consulate at Dundee has not been accepted by Mr. Hall, and as I was unconscious, in appointing Mr. Hall, (if I did it) that I was interfering with my old friend, Dr. Smith, I will be obliged if the Sec. of State will send me a nomination for Rev. James Smith, of Ills. for that Consulate. A. LINCOLN Jan. 14. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 14, 1863
Will the Sec. of War please consider whether a test of this invention is not worth making; and if decided in the affirmative, have the test made. A. LINCOLN Jan. 14. 1863.

EndorsementConcerning Isaac R. Diller's Gunpowder
January 15, 1863
The President the War and Navy Departments to take such measures as may be necessary to test the powder submitted or to be submitted by Mr. Diller, and referred to in the inclosed papers. Jan. 15. 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 15, 1863.
Secretary of War: Please see Mr. Stafford, who wants to assist in raising colored troops in Missouri. A LINCOLN.

To Editors of the WashingtonChronicle
Editors of Chronicle Executive Mansion, Gentlemen: Washington, Jan. 16. 1863.
If you should publish the attached letter, please make the corrections indicated. Yours &c A LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Charles S. Heintzelman

When the time comes I should like to make this appointment, if not pressed too hardly in other directions. A.L. Jan. 16. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 16, 1863
Injustice has probably been done in this case. Sec. of War please examine it.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 17, 1863
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I have signed the Joint Resolution to provide for the immediate payment of the army and navy of the United States, passed by the House of Representatives on the 14th, and by the Senate on the 15th instant. The Joint Resolution is a simple authority, amounting however, under existing circumstances, to a direction to the Secretary of the Treasury to make an additional issue of one hundred millions of dollars in United States notes if so much money is needed for the payment of the army and navy. My approval is given in order that every possible facility may be afforded for the prompt discharge of all arrears of pay due to our soldiers and our sailors. While giving this approval, however, I think it my duty to express my sincere regret that it has been found necessary to authorize so large an additional issue of United States notes, when this circulation, and that of the suspended banks together have become already so redundant as to increase prices beyond real values, thereby augmenting the cost of living to the injury of labor, and the cost of supplies to the injury of the whole country. It seems very plain that continued issues of United States notes, without any check to the issues of suspended banks, and without adequate provision for the raising of money by loans, and for founding the issues so as to keep them within due limits, must soon produce disastrous consequences. And this matter appears to me so important that I feel bound to avail myself of this occasion to ask the special attention of Congress to it. That Congress has power to regulate the currency of the country, can hardly admit of doubt; and that a judicious measure to prevent the deterioration of this currency, by a reasonable taxation of bank circulation or otherwise is needed, seems equally clear. Independently of this general consideration, it would be unjust to the people at large, to exempt banks, enjoying the special privilege of circulation, from their just proportion of the public burdens. In order to raise money by way of loans most easily and cheaply, it is clearly necessary to give every possible support to the public credit. To that end, a uniform currency, in which taxes, subscriptions to loans, and all other ordinary public dues, as well as all private dues may be paid, is almost, if not quite indispensable. Such a currency can be furnished by banking associations, organized under a general act of Congress, as suggested in my message at the beginning of the present session. The securing of this circulation, by the pledge of United States bonds, as therein suggested, would still further facilitate loans, by increasing the present and causing a future demand for such bonds. In view of the actual financial embarrassments of the government, and of the greater embarrassments sure to come, if the necessary means of relief be not afforded, I feel that I should not perform my duty by a simple announcement of my approval of the Joint Resolution which proposes relief only by increasing circulation, without expressing my earnest desire that measures, such in substances as those I have just referred to, may receive the early sanction of Congress. By such measures, in my opinion, will payment be most certainly secured, not only to the army and navy, but to all honest creditors of the government, and satisfactory provision made for future demands on the treasury. ABRAHAM LINCOLN January 17. 1863.

To John W. Forney
Hon. J. W. Forney Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Jan. 18. 1863.
I see that ``Occasional'' in the ``Press'' appeals to Congress to make the appropriation for paying for the emancipated slaves in this District. That appropriation is already made in the emancipation act, as you will see in Sec. 7. page 378. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery Blair
January 19, 1863
The relations of Downey are among the best men of my acquaintance, and as Judge Treat, before whom he was convicted, recommends his pardon, I incline to pardon him, if the Post-Master General does not object. Will he please say whether he has any objection & return to me? A. LINCOLN Jan. 19. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion Dear Sir: January 19, 1863
Please have the Pay-Master-General examine & report upon all the evidence in his control, bearing upon the question of removal of Joseph A. Nunes, as an Additional Pay-Master. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If it be lawful to make the appointment within requested by Gen. Franklin, let it be done A. LINCOLN Jan. 19. 1863.

To the Workingmen of Manchester, England
Executive Mansion, Washington, To the workingmen of Manchester: January 19, 1863.
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the address and resolutions which you sent to me on the eve of the new year. When I came, on the fourth day of March, 1861, through a free and constitutional election, to preside in the government of the United States, the country was found at the verge of civil war. Whatever might have been the cause, or whosoever the fault, one duty paramount to all others was before me, namely, to maintain and preserve at once the Constitution and the integrity of the federal republic. A conscientious purpose to perform this duty is a key to all the measures of administration which have been, and to all which will hereafter be pursued. Under our form of government, and my official oath, I could not depart from this purpose if I would. It is not always in the power of governments to enlarge or restrict the scope of moral results which follow the policies that they may deem it necessary for the public safety, from time to time, to adopt. I have understood well that the duty of self-preservation rests solely with the American people. But I have at the same time been aware that favor or disfavor of foreign nations might have a material influence in enlarging and prolonging the struggle with disloyal men in which the country is engaged. A fair examination of history has seemed to authorize a belief that the past action and influences of the United States were generally regarded as having been beneficient towards mankind. I have therefore reckoned upon the forbearance of nations. Circumstances, to some of which you kindly allude, induced me especially to expect that if justice and good faith should be practiced by the United States, they would encounter no hostile influence on the part of Great Britain. It is now a pleasant duty to acknowledge the demonstration you have given of your desire that a spirit of peace and amity towards this country may prevail in the councils of your Queen, who is respected and esteemed in your own country only more than she is by the kindred nation which has its home on this side of the Atlantic. I know and deeply deplore the sufferings which the workingmen at Manchester and in all Europe are called to endure in this crisis. It has been often and studiously represented that the attempt to overthrow this government, which was built upon the foundation of human rights, and to substitute for it one which should rest exclusively on the basis of human slavery, was likely to obtain the favor of Europe. Through the actions of our disloyal citizens the workingmen of Europe have been subjected to a severe trial, for the purpose of forcing their sanction to that attempt. Under these circumstances, I cannot but regard your decisive utterance upon the question as an instance of sublime Christian heroism which has not been surpassed in any age or in any country. It is, indeed, an energetic and reinspiring assurance of the inherent power of truth and of the ultimate and universal triumph of justice, humanity, and freedom. I do not doubt that the sentiments you have expressed will be sustained by your great nation, and, on the other hand, I have no hesitation in assuring you that they will excite admiration, esteem, and the most reciprocal feelings of friendship among the American people. I hail this interchange of sentiment, therefore, as an augury that, whatever else may happen, whatever misfortune may befall your country or my own, the peace and friendship which now exist between the two nations will be, as it shall be my desire to make them, perpetual. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates

Hon. Attorney-General please make out and send me a pardon in this case. A. LINCOLN Jan. 20. 1863.

To Samuel R. Curtis

I know not what to do with these letters but to submit them to Gen. Curtis. A. LINCOLN Jan. 20. 1863.

To Samuel T. Glover
Hon. S. T. Glover Executive Mansion My dear Sir Washington, D.C. Jan. 20, 1863.
Yours of January 12th. stating the distressed condition of the people in South-West Missouri, and urging the completion of the Railroad to Springfield, is just received. Of course I deplore the distress of the people in that section & elsewhere. Nor is the thought of extending the railroad, new to me. But the military necessity for it, is not so patent, but that Congress would try to restrain me in some way, were I to attempt it. I am very glad to believe that the late military operations in Missouri and Arkans[as] are at least, promising of repose to South West Missouri. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: January 20, 1863
I transmit, herewith, a report from the Secretary of State in answer to the Resolution of the Senate relative to the correspondence between this Government and the Mexican Minister, in relation to the exportation of articles contraband of war for the use of the French Army in Mexico. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, January 20, 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I have a strong inclination to give Col. McHenry another chance. What says the Sec. of War? A. LINCOLN Jan. 20. 1863.

To Thomas Ewing
January 21, 1863
I believe your son knows, and you may now know, that I hold him in very high estimation; still, there is a reason, in no wise personal to him, why I shall have to confer the appointment mentioned to another. A. LINCOLN Jan. 21. 1863.

Order Approving Sentence of Fitz-John Porter
January 21, 1863
The foregoing proceedings, findings, and sentence in the foregoing case of Major-General Fitz-John Porter, are approved and confirmed; and it is ordered that the said Fitz-John Porter be, and he hereby is, cashiered and dismissed from the service of the United States as a Major General of Volunteers, and as Colonel and Brevet Brigadier General in the Regular Service of the United States, and forever disqualified from holding any office of trust or profit under the Government of the United States. January 21, 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Order Establishing Gauge of Union Pacific Railroad
January 21, 1863
Whereas, by the 12th. Section of an act of Congress, entitled ``An Act to aid in the construction of a Rail Road and Telegraph line, from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean and to secure to the Government the use of the same, for postal, military, and other purposes,'' Approved July 1st. 1862, it is made the duty of the President of the United States, to determine the uniform width of the track of the entire line of the said Rail Road and the branches of the same; and whereas, application has been made to me, by the Leavenworth, Pawnee and Western Rail Road Company, (a company authorized by the Act of Congress above mentioned to construct a branch of said Rail Road) to fix the gauge thereof. Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, do determine that the uniform width of the track of said Rail Road and all its branches which are provided for in the aforesaid Act of Congress, shall be Five (5) feet, and that this order be filed in the Office of the Secretary of the Interior, for the information and guidance of all concerned. Done at the City of Washington, this 21st. day of January, in the Year of Our Lord One thousand eight hundred and sixty three. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
Executive Mansion Washington January 21. 1863
Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Representatives. I submit herewith for your  consideration, the Joint Resolutions of the Corporate authorities of the City of Washington, adopted September 27th. 1862, and a Memorial of the same under date of October 28th. 1862, both relating to, and urging the construction of certain rail roads concentrating upon the City of Washington. In presenting this Memorial, and the Joint Resolutions to you, I  am not prepared to say more than that the subject is one of great practical importance; and that I hope it will receive the attentive consideration of Congress. ABRAHAM LINCOLN January 21. 1863.

To William H. Seward

It won't do. Must have a tip-top man there next time. Jan. 21. 1863. A. L.

To John P. Usher

Sec. of Interior, please send me a nomination for William T. Otto, as Assistant Sec. of Interior. A. LINCOLN Jan. 21. 1863.

To Samuel Y. At Lee

If entirely convenient, will Mr. Atelee, allow William, leave of absence for to-day? A. LINCOLN Jan. 22. 1863

To James R. Doolittle
Executive Mansion, Hon. J. R. Doolittle Washington, Jan 22. 1863.
My dear Sir I find I can not postpone the appointment of Asst. Sec of Interior to the end of the session. I therefore shall have to try to recognize Mr. Potter in some other way. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
Major Gen. S. A. Hurlbut Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, January 22, 1863.
Yours of the 17th. to Mr. Washburne has been shown me. As your friend, which you know I am, I would advise you not to come to Washington, if you could safely come without leave. You now stand well with the Sec. of War, and with Gen. Halleck, and it would lessen you with both for you to make your appearance here. I advise you by all means to dismiss the thought of coming here. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To John A. McClernand
Major Gen. McClernand Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, January 22. 1863.
Yours of the 7th. was received yesterday. I need not recite, because you remember the contents. The charges, in their nature, are such that I must know as much about the facts involved, as you can. I have too many family controversies, (so to speak) already on my hands, to voluntarily, or so long as I can avoid it, take up another. You are now doing well---well for the country, and well for yourself---much better than you could possibly be, if engaged in open war with Gen. Halleck. Allow me to beg, that for your sake, for my sake, & for the country's sake, you give your whole attention to the better work. Your success upon the Arkansas, was both brilliant and valuable, and is fully appreciated by the country and government. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

MemorandumAppointment of Thomas J. C. Amory
Executive Mansion, Washington, Jan. 22. 1863.
To-day, Jonathan Amory, U.S. despatch agent at Boston, call to ask that his son, Col. Thomas. J. C. Amory, may be made a Brig. Gen. He is a graduate, is a Capt. in the Reg. Army, and a Col. of 17th. Mass vols---is at Newbern N.C. and is recommended by Gen. Foster, & also by Mass. delegation---so says the father.

Memorandum Concerning Herman Koppel
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 22. 1863.
To-day, Mr. Prentiss, calls as Atty. of Herman Koppel, saying the latter is a loyal citizen, that he resided at Charleston S.C. at the beginning of the rebellion; that he converted what he had into a few bales of cotten and other articles, apparantly to break the blockade, as a mode of getting out, but really intending to surrender to the blockade, which he did of purpose & with no effort to avoid it---that his property has been condemned by a prize court, and he appeals to me to remit to him the proceeds of the property, or at least the government's moiety of it. Admitting this all to be true, is it both lawful and proper for me to do this?

To Frederick Steele
Executive Mansion, Washington, Brigadier General Frederick Steele January 22, 1863.
Sir: So far as respects your military record and reputation, it seems highly fit and proper that you should be promoted to a Major Generalship; and I should nominate you for it, at once, were it not for a document  presented to me, of which the inclosed is a copy. With a satisfactory explanation, I will gladly make the nomination; and in such way, that the time from now till then, shall not be lost to you. Without such explanation, I could scarcely bring myself to make the nomination; and I think it is certain the Senate would not confirm it, if made. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Major Gener Banks Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, [January 23?] 1863.
In superseding you, by returning Gen. Butler to command the Department of the Gulf, I have trusted that you will not understand me as being even indifferent to your feelings and your honor. I would be as careful of yours as of my own. I have issued the proclamation, which, like most measures has two sides to its effects. What is evil in effect we are already en during, and we must have the counterpart of it. For this last, as I think, there is no such place as Louisiana, and no such man as Gen. Butler. But to make the most of both, he must go with heart and will; and having been relieved from that Department it is a great point with him to be restored to it. In beginning the peculiar work alluded to there should not be another hour's delay. Hence I send him at once. I sincerely hope the Mississippi may be opened by the time Gen. Butler reaches New-Orleans; but whether it shall be or not, he must go forward without more delay. That you shall make your independent expedition into Texas is still intended; but it can not be made so long as your force is needed on the Mississippi; and while needed there, it is my purpose that you retain the immediate command of it in it's operation, although you are to report to Gen. Butler after his arrival. When your force, or a substantial and sufficient part of it can be spared from the Mississippi, you are to go to Texas with a department independent of Gen. Butler. His orders and instructions are drawn up with a view to, and in conformity with all this.

To Edward Bates
January 23, 1863
Please give me your opinion in writing whether, after a vessel and cargo is regularly condemned in a prize court, for breach of United States blockade, I, as President, have any lawful power of remission in the case? And if any, to what extent?

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Executive Mansion, General Burnside: Washington, January 23, 1863.
Will see you any moment when you come. A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Halleck
Major General Halleck Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Jan. 23. 1863.
I understand you have before you the record of a Court-martial, in the case of Col. Samuel Graham. If so, and you have not already decided it, please do not, until speaking with me concerning it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

MemorandumAppointment of John J. D. Kingsbury
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 23, 1863.
To-day, Mrs. Col. Kingsbury, whose husband fell at Antietam, calls and asks that John J. D. Kingsbury, cousin, and adopted son, of the Col. be appointed to West Point, for which the Col. intended him. He now resides in New-York, but is native of Conn. Will be 18. years of age next June.

Memorandum: Promotion of John Green
Executive Mansion Jan. 23. 1863
To-day, Mrs. Green, calls and urges that her husband, Capt. John Green of the 2nd. Cavalry, have brevet promotions. I am to have his case inquired into. And now, has his name been sent for the brevet? Or, if not, ought it to be? A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 23, 1863
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit for the consideration of Congress a report from the Secretary of State, transmitting the Regulations, Decrees and Orders for the government of the United States Consular Courts in Turkey. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington. January 23. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Secretary of War Washington, January 23. 1863.
Sir: I think Gen. Butler should go to New-Orleans again. He is unwilling to go, unless he is restored to the command of the Department. He should start by the first of February, and should take some force with him. The whole must be so managed as to not wrong, or wound the feelings of Gen. Banks. His original wish was to go to Texas; and it must be arranged for him to do this now with a substantial force; and yet he must not go, to the endangering the opening of the Mississippi. I hope this may be done by the time Gen. Butler shall arrive there; but whether or not, I think we can not longer dispense with Gen. Butler's service. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
January 24, 1863
Will General Halleck please call over, bringing with him the letter from Genl Hooker, this morning? A. LINCOLN Jany 24th. 1863. P.S. Please bring Genl Heintzelman's last return A. L.

To William H. Seward

Sec. of State, please send me a nomination for Dr. James McBride, of Oregon, to be Commissioner at the Sandwich Islands. Jan. 24. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Maj. Gen. Halleck Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Jan. 25, 1863.
Please meet Gen. Burnside here at 10 o'clock this morning. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George E. Fawcett
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 26 1863
My Dear Sir Allow me to thank you cordially for your thoughtful courtesy in sending me a copy of your ``Emancipation March'' Your Obt Servt A. LINCOLN George E. Fawcett Esq Muscatine Iowa

To Joseph Hooker
Major General Hooker: Executive Mansion, General. Washington, January 26, 1863.
I have placed you at the head of the Army of the Potomac. Of course I have done this upon what appear to me to be sufficient reasons. And yet I think it best for you to know that there are some things in regard to which, I am not quite satisfied with you. I believe you to be a brave and a skilful soldier, which, of course, I like. I also believe you do not mix politics with your profession, in which you are right. You have confidence in yourself, which is a valuable, if not an indispensable quality. You are ambitious, which, within reasonable bounds, does good rather than harm. But I think that during Gen. Burnside's command of the Army, you have taken counsel of your ambition, and thwarted him as much as you could, in which you did a great wrong to the country, and to a most meritorious and honorable brother officer. I have heard, in such way as to believe it, of your recently saying that both the Army and the Government needed a Dictator. Of course it was not for this, but in spite of it, that I have given you the command. Only those generals who gain successes, can set up dictators. What I now ask of you is military success, and I will risk the dictatorship. The government will support you to the utmost of it's ability, which is neither more nor less than it has done and will do for all commanders. I much fear that the spirit which you have aided to infuse into the Army, of criticising their Commander, and withholding confidence from him, will now turn upon you. I shall assist you as far as I can, to put it down. Neither you, nor Napoleon, if he were alive again, could get any good out of an army, while such a spirit prevails in it. And now, beware of rashness. Beware of rashness, but with energy, and sleepless vigilance, go forward, and give us victories. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: January 26, 1863
In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the 13th. instant requesting a copy of certain correspondence respecting the capture of British vessels sailing from one British port to another, having on board contraband of war intended for the use of the insurgents, I have the honor to transmit a report from the Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied. Washington, ABRAHAM LINCOLN January 26th. 1863.

To Franz Sigel
January 26, 1863
I believe an increased Cavalry force would be valuable, but I have not promised that, to suit the convenience of any officer, I would, however inconvenient to the government, raise one immediately. I have tried, in regard to Gen. Schurz & Gen. Stahl, to oblige all around; but it seems to get worse & worse. If Gen. Sigel would say distinctly, and unconditionally, what he desires done, about the command of the forces he has, I should try to do it; but when he has plans, conditioned upon my raising new forces, which is inconvenient for me to do, it is drawing upon me too severely. Jan. 26. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, January 26, 1863.
The bearer of this, Mr. Edward Yates, is an Englishman, who, more than a year ago, sent two small treatises on the Art of War, of which treatises he is the author. He is now passing some time in the United States, and wishes permission to visit our Army. I know not whether you consistently can oblige him, but if you can, I shall be obliged, as I feel sure he is our true friend. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major Gen. Burnside Executive Mansion, Washington, My dear Sir January 28. 1862 .
Gen. Humphreys is now with me saying that you told him that you had strongly urged upon me, his, Gen. H's promotion, and that I in response had used such strong language, that you were sure his name would be sent to the Senate. I remember nothing of your speaking to me; or I to you, about Gen. H. still this is far from conclusive that nothing was said. I will now thank you to drop me a note, saying what you think is right and just about Gen. Humphreys. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Lowell, Mass. Washington, January 28. 1863.
Please come here immediately. Telegraph me about what time you will arrive. A. LINCOLN

Order Approving Sentence of Justus McKinstry
January 28, 1863
The sentence in the foregoing case will be carried into execution by the dismissal of Major Justus McKinstry, Quartermaster, United States Army, from the service of the United States. Washington, January 28, 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 28, 1863
To the Senate and House of Representatives: In conformity to the Law of 16 July 1862, I most cordially recommend that Commander David D. Porter, U.S. Navy, Acting Rear Admiral, commanding the Mississippi Squadron, receive a vote of thanks of Congress, for the bravery and skill displayed in the attack on the Post of Arkansas, which surrendered to the combined Military and Naval Forces on the 10th. Inst. Washington City, ABRAHAM LINCOLN 28 January 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please see the bearer, and have any injustice which may have been done Gen. Keyes corrected. A. LINCOLN Jan. 28. 1863.

To John A. Dix
Majr. Genl. Dix Washington City, D.C. Fort-Monroe Va. January 29, 1863
Do Richmond papers have any thing about Vicksburg? A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion Dear Sir Jan. 29, 1863.
Mr. Speed tells me you wish to appoint him to some agency about the Goose-Creek Salt works; and he wishes to decline it, & that William P. Thomason may be appointed. I personally know Mr. Thomason to be an honest & very competent man, & fully in sympathy with the administration. I think he should be appointed. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Thurlow Weed
Hon. Thurlow Weed Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, January 29. 1863.
Your valedictory to the patrons of the Albany Evening Journal brings me a good deal of uneasiness. What does it mean? Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To John A. Dix
Major General Dix Washington City, D.C. Fort Monroe, Va. January 30 1863
What Iron-clads, if any, have gone out of Hampton Roads within the last two day[s]? A LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major Gen. Dix Washington City, D.C. Fort-Monroe, Va. January 31 1863
How has Corcoran's and Pryor's battle terminated? Have you any news through Richmond papers, or otherwise? A. LINCOLN

To William W. Gallaer
January 31, 1863
I would like to oblige Mr. Gallaer, & other good men; but I cannot now do the thing he desires.

To Montgomery C. Meigs
Quarter-Master-General Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, January 31. 1863.
The bearer of this, Mr. James C. Conkling, is successor to Mr. Thomas H. Campbell, now deceased, as agent to adjust accounts with this government for the State of Illinois. He has ample business qualifications, is entirely trustworthy; and with all is my personal friend of long standing. Please see & hear him. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Fines Collected from Kentuckians
January 31, 1863
Senator Powell calls and leaves this paper and asks that an order be made on the persons stated to have made the collections to refund the money to the persons respectively from whom collected, and all monies collected in like manner in the counties of Henderson,  Union, Hopkins & Webster A. LINCOLN Jan. 31, 1863.

To Robert C. Schenck
Major Gen. Schenck Washington City, D.C. Baltimore, Md. January 31 1863
I do not take jurisdiction of the pass question. Exercise your own discretion as to whether Judge Pettis shall have a pass. A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 31, 1863
If the within showing of Col. Ballier's case is correct, I think he should be restored. It shows that he was sick in hospital when discharged from service, and that without knowledge of his discharge he made premature efforts to return to his duty.

To Joseph P. Taylor
Commissary General. Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, January 31, 1863.
Please see the bearer, Edward D. Baker, who is a son of my old friend Col. Baker, who fell at Ball's Bluff. He is now a first Lieut. in the 4th. U.S. Cavalry, and has been serving as Adjutant of the Regiment. He was in the battles of Perryville, and Murfreesboro. He now wishes to be a Commissary with the rank of Captain, and if you can inform me that he can be made such consistently with the rules of the service, I will oblige him. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. J. T. Boyle Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, February 1. 1863.
Yesterday Senator Powell left a paper with me, with a request which I endorsed upon it at the time, and the contents of which paper, and request appear by the inclosed copies. You perceive at once what the object is. This course of procedure, though just and politic in some cases, is so liable to gross abuse, as to do great injustice in some others and give the government immense trouble. I will thank you, therefore, if you will, without reasonable delay, ascertain the facts of these cases and report them to me, together with such other information as may best enable me to understand the whole case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Oliver P. Morton
`` Cypher '' Gov. O. P. Morton Washington, D.C., Indianapolis, Ia: Feb. 1. 1863
I think it would not do for me to meet you at Harrisburg. It would be known, and would be misconstrued a thousand ways. Of course if the whole truth could be told and accepted as the truth, it would do no harm, but that is impossible. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Eliphalet N. Chester
Executive Mansion, Washington, Feb. 2. 1863.
To-day Senator Doolittle, Mrs. Spaulding, and Col. Root, call and ask that Eliphalet Nott Chester, of Buffalo N.Y. 17 the 18th. of next July, be sent to West-Point. Two of his brothers have served in this war, (one of them still in the service) and he, as a private, has been through the battles of South-Mountain, Antietam, and Fredericksburg. Col. Root is his Col., and gives the strongest testimony, both as to his general worthiness, and his particular talent for Military matters.

To the Workingmen of London
Executive Mansion, Washington, To the workingmen of London: February 2, 1863.
I have received the new year's address which you have sent me with a sincere appreciation of the exalted and humane sentiments by which it was inspired. As those sentiments are manifestly the enduring support of the free institutions of England, so I am sure also that they constitute the only reliable basis for free institutions throughout the world. The resources, advantages, and powers of the American people are very great, and they have, consequently, succeeded to equally great responsibilities. It seems to have devolved upon them to test whether a government, established on the principles of human freedom, can be maintained against an effort to build one upon the exclusive foundation of human bondage. They will rejoice with me in the new evidences which your proceedings furnish, that the magnanimity they are exhibiting is justly estimated by the true friends of freedom and humanity in foreign countries. Accept my best wishes for your individual welfare, and for the welfare and happiness of the whole British people. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates

Let a pardon be made out in this case. A. LINCOLN Feb. 3, 1863

Memorandum:Appointment of William H. Hodges
Executive Mansion, Washington, February 3. 1863.
To-day Senator Foote calls and asks that William H. Hodges, of Mass. 17 next June, and nephew of Mrs. Foote, may be sent to West-Point. He says the boy is a fine scholar, and of uncommonly fine physical development

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 3, 1863
Sec. of War, Please see Mr. Conkling, a good man, who comes as successor of Mr. Campbell, now deceased, as agent to settle accounts for Illinois. A. LINCOLN Feb. 3. 1863.

To the House of Representatives
To, the House of Representatives: February 4, 1863
In compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives on the 5th. December last, requesting information upon the present condition of Mexico, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, and the papers by which it was accompanied. Washington, February, 4th. 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Robert C. Schenck
Cypher Major Gen. Schenck Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Md. Feb. 4 1863
I hear of some difficulty in the streets of Baltimore yesterday. What is the amount of it? A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 4, 1863
In pursuance of the joint resolution of Congress approved 3 February, 1863, tendering its thanks to Commander John L. Worden, U.S. Navy, I nominate that officer to be a captain in the Navy, on the active list, from the 3d February, 1863. It may be proper to state that the number of captains authorized by the 2d section of the act of 16 July, 1862, is now full, but presuming that the meaning of the 9th section of the same act is that the officer receiving the vote of thanks shall immediately be advanced one grade, I have made the nomination. Washington, D.C., February 4, 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Francisco S. Lopez
February 5, 1863
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, To His Excellency Senor Don Francisco Solano Lopez, President of the Republic of Paraguay. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which under date of 30 October, last, you addressed to me, announcing the death of the late most excellent President, Senor Don Carlos Antonio Lopez and of your subsequent elevation to the Presidency of the Republic by the unanimous vote of the Representatives of the nation. I offer your Excellency my sincere sympathy in the sad bereavement which you have experienced in the death of your distinguished Father, under whose government the Republic of Paraguay enjoyed many years of peace and prosperity. The election of your Excellency to succeed him is the best proof of the satisfaction of the Republic with his administration. I congratulate you upon this mark of the confidence of the nation, and sincerely reciprocate the desire Your Excellency has expressed for the continuance of the good relations so happily subsisting between the United States and Paraguay, to which desirable end my own best efforts shall not be wanting. Wishing peace, progress, and prosperity for the Republic, and health and happiness to your Excellency I pray God to have you always in His most holy keeping. Written at the city of Washington this 5th. day of February 1863 and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-seventh. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. February 5, 1863
I submit to the Senate for consideration with a view to ratification a ``Convention between the United States of America and the Republic of Peru, providing for the reference to the King of Belgium of the claims arising out of the capture and confiscation of the ships Lizzie Thompson and Georgiana''---signed at Lima on the 20th, December, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 5 February, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 5, 1863
I submit to the Senate, for consideration with a view to ratification, a ``convention between the United States of America and the Republic of Peru, for the settlement of the pending claims of the citizens of either country against the other,'' signed at Lima on the 12th January, ultimo, with the following amendment: Article 1. Strike out the words, ``The claims of the American citizens Dr. Charles Easton, Edmund Sartori, and the owners of the whale ship William Lee, against the Government of Peru, and the Peruvian citizen Stephen Montano against the Government of the United States,'' and insert all claims of citizens of the United States against the Government of Peru, and of citizens of Peru against the Government of the United States, which have not been embraced in conventional or diplomatic agreement between the two Governments or their plenipotentiaries, and statements of which soliciting the interposition of either Government may, previously to the exchange of the ratifications of this convention have been filed in the Department of State at Washington, or the Department for Foreign Affairs at Lima, &c. This amendment is considered desirable, as there are believed to be other claims proper for the consideration of the commission which are not among those specified in the original article, and because it is at least questionable whether either Government would be justified in incurring the expense of a commission for the sole purpose of disposing of the claims mentioned in that article. Washington, February 5, 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward

Sec. of State please see these gentlemen, representative of the shipping interests. A. LINCOLN Feb. 5, 1863

To Franz Sigel
Executive Mansion, Major General Sigel Washington, February 5. 1863.
My dear Sir Gen. Schurz thinks I was a little cross in my late note to you. If I was, I ask pardon. If I do get up a little temper I have no sufficient time to keep it up. I believe I will not now issue any new order in relation to the matter in question; but I will be obliged, if Gen. Hooker consistently can, and will give an increased Cavalry command to Gen. Stahl. You may show Gen. Hooker this letter if you choose. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let Thomas J. C. Amory be appointed a Brigadier General. Feb. 5, 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph P. Taylor
[c. February 5, 1863]
I would like to give the son of my old friend, Col. Baker one of the places or vacancies created by this act, Will the Com. Genl. please arrange it for me? A. LINCOLN

Endorsement: Appointment of Joseph Hertford

I should be glad for my friend Swett to be obliged; and besides, Mr. Hertford is a very worthy and competent gentleman. Feb. 6. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Bartolome Mitre
February 6, 1863
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Excellency Senor Don Bartolome Mitre, President of the Argentine Republic. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Excellency has addressed to me under date of the 23d. October, last, announcing your election to the Presidency of the Republic by the free suffrages of your fellow-citizens. I assure Your Excellency that this event has inspired me with the liveliest gratification. After so many years of discord and strife the Provinces of the Argentine Confederation have buried their jealousies and again present themselves to the world as a united nation having a common interest and a common destiny. No one knows better than Your Excellency that it has been the uniform desire and effort of this Government so far as it could properly do so by the friendly offices of its Ministers in the Plata, to promote conciliation and to effect the consolidation which has happily been accomplished. I congratulate the nation and Your Excellency upon this result, and upon the elevation of Your Excellency to the Chief Magistracy of the reunited Republic. And I do not doubt that the earnest patriotism and enlightened statesmanship of Your Excellency will speedily obliterate all painful remembrances of the past and inspire the people of the nation to give you a hearty and unanimous support in the development of their best interests. Sincerely reciprocating Your Excellency's sentiments of friendship for this Government and people and praying God to have your Excellency always in His most holy keeping, I am your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. Washington 6 February, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 6, 1863
I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State with accompanying documents in answer to the resolution of the Senate on the 30th ultimo. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, February 6th, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 6, 1863
In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of the United States of yesterday, requesting information in regard to the death of General Ward, a citizen of the United States, in the military service of the Chinese Government, I transmit a copy of a despatch of the 27th. of October, last, and of its accompaniment, from the Minister of the United States in China. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 6th. February, 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
[c. February 8, 1863]
If another Quarter Master is needed in Gen. McClernand's Corps, I would like for the appointment within requested to be made. Sec. of War, please refer to Q.M. Genl. A. LINCOLN

To James M. Edmunds
February 9, 1863
I shall be obliged if the Commissioner of the General Land-Office will give Mr. Morris a full hearing on the business indicated within, and do what may be directed by the law in the case. Please give Mr. Morris an early hearing. A. LINCOLN Feb. 9. 1863.

To William A. Hammond
February 9, 1863
Will the Surgeon General please have an examination of the physical condition of Henry Williams, named within, made by a competent Surgeon, and report to me. A. LINCOLN Feb. 9. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 9, 1863
I know nothing as to whether the transfer sought, is admissable. I have a very strong impression, however that Gen. Frye is a worthy gentleman and meritorious officer. A. LINCOLN Feb. 9. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will Mr. Stanton please see Col. Kirkham and read the letter of Mr. Butler, one of our wisest and most reliable men at Springfield Monday. Feby. 9. 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I personally know John W. True; and think him both competent and worthy to be an Additional Paymaster. A. LINCOLN Feb. 9. 1863.

To Edward Bates

Let a pardon be made out in this case. Feb. 10, 1863

To David Hunter and Others
Executive Mansion Washington. February 10th. 1863
To David Hunter, Major General U.S.A., Rufus Saxton, Brig: Genl. U.S.A., A.C. Smith, W.E. Wording and W.H. Brisbane Esquires: You are hereby authorized and directed agreeably to an Act of Congress, approved on the 6th. day of February inst. to select for Government use, for war, military, naval revenue, charitable, Educational or police purposes, such tracts, parcels or lots of land, within the State of South Carolina, from the lands which may have been or which may hereafter be offered for sale by the Direct Tax Commissioners in said State, appointed under an Act of Congress, approved June 7th. 1862. as may seem to you necessary and proper for the purposes aforesaid. And I do direct and order that either of the two persons first named, together with two of the three persons last named, shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of making such selections; and in case of the absence of the two persons first named, the last named three persons, or the major part of them, are authorized to make the selections, as hereinbefore directed. And you are hereby authorized and empowered to execute and perform the duties herein specified, according to Law. You will report your proceedings to the Secretary of the Treasury. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Memorandum: Appointment of Philip Reade
Executive Mansion Feb. 10. 1863.
To-day Gen. B. F. Butler calls and asks that Philip Read of Mass (Dracut) may be sent to West-Point. Is now just past 17.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 10, 1863
In answer to the resolution of the Senate of yesterday, requesting information touching the visit of Mr. Mercier to Richmond, in April last, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, to whom the resolution was referred. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 10th. Feby., 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I suppose these papers are superseded, by what the Secretary did yesterday. A. LINCOLN Feb. 10. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir February 11, 1863.
Mr. Senator Henderson and Mr. Representative Rollins, are so anxious to have something done for Edward H. Castle [Casth?], of Mo, that I ask you to see them, and oblige them if you can consistently with law and propriety. [A. LINCOLN]

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion Whom it may concern. Washington, February 11, 1863.
Major General Butler, bearer of this, visits the Mississippi River, and localities thereon, at my request, for observation. The Military and Naval Commanders, whom he may meet, will please facilitate his passage from point to point, and make him as comfortable as possible during his stay with them respectively. I will thank them also to impart to him such information as they may possess, and he may seek, not inconsistent with the military service. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion Major Gen. Halleck Feb. 12. 1863.
Gen. Meagher, now with me, says the Irish Brigade has had no promotion; and that Col. Robert Nugent &; Col. Patrick Kelly, both of that Brigade have fairly earned promotion. They both hold commissions as Captains in the regular army. Please examine their records with reference to the question of promoting one or both of them. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Majr. General Rosecrans. Executive Mansion Murfreesboro, Tenn. Washington, Feb. 12, 1863.
Your despatch about ``River Patrolling'' received. I have called the Sec. of Navy, Sec. of War, and General-in-Chief, together and submitted it to them, who promise to do their very best in the case. I can not take it into my own hands without producing inextracable confusion. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 12, 1863
In answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 10th. instant, requesting information on the subjects of mediation, arbitration, or other measures looking to the termination of the existing civil war, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 12th. Feby., 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 12, 1863
On the 4th of September, 1862, Commander George Henry Preble, U.S. Navy, then senior officer in command of the Naval force off the harbor of Mobile, was guilty of inexcusable neglect in permitting the armed steamer Oreto, in open daylight, to run the blockade. For his omission to perform his whole duty on that occasion and the injury thereby inflicted on the service and the country, his name was stricken from the list of Naval officers and he was dismissed the service. Since his dismissal earnest application has been made for his restoration to his former position by Senators and Naval officers, on the ground that his fault was an error of judgment, and that the example in his case has already had its effect in preventing a repetition of similar neglect. I therefore, on this application and representation, and in consideration of his previous fair record, do hereby nominate George Henry Preble to be a commander in the Navy, from the 16th July, 1862, to take rank on the active list next after Commander Edward Donaldson, and to fill a vacancy occasioned by the death of Commander J. M. Wainwright.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, D.C., 12 February, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 12. 1863
On the 24th August, 1861, Commander Roger Perry, U.S. Navy. was dismissed from the service under a misapprehension in regard to his loyalty to the Government, from the circumstance that several oaths were transmitted to him and the Navy Department failed to receive any recognition of them. After his dismissal, and upon his assurance that the oath failed to reach him and his readiness to execute it, he was recommissioned to his original position on the 4th September following. On the same day, 4th September, he was ordered to command the sloop-of-war Vandalia; on the 22d this order was revoked and he was ordered to duty in the Mississippi squadron, and on the 23d January, 1862, was detached sick, and has since remained unemployed. The Advisory Board, under the act of 16th July, 1862, did not recommend him for further promotion. This last commission having been issued during the recess of the Senate expired at the end of the succeeding session, 17 July. 1862, from which date, not having been nominated to the Senate. he ceased to be a commander in the Navy. To correct the omission to nominate this officer to the Senate at its last session, I now nominate Commander Roger Perry to be a commander in the Navy, from the 14th September, 1855, to take his relative position on the list of commanders not recommended for further promotion. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, D.C., 12th February, 1863.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General will please have a pardon made out for Robert B. Nay, mentioned within. A. LINCOLN Feb. 13. 1863.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Simon Cameron Executive Mansion, Harrisburg, Penn. Washington, Feb. 13, 1863.
Gen. Clay is here, & I suppose the matter we spoke of will have to be definitely settled now. Please answer. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Mr. Wright

Would see Mr. Wright any time. A. LINCOLN Feb. 13. 1863.

To Galusha A. Grow
Washington, February 13, 1863.
Sir: I herewith communicate to the House of Representatives, in answer to their resolution of the 18th of December last, a report from the Secretary of the Interior, containing all the information in the possession of the department respecting the causes of the recent outbreaks of the Indian tribes in the north-west, which has not heretofore been transmitted to Congress. Hon. Galusha A. Grow, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Speaker of the House of Representatives.

MemorandumConcerning Transfer of Richard W. Johnson
Executive Mansion, Washington, Feb. 13. 1863.
To-day, Hon. Mr. Yeaman, of Ky, calls and asks that Gen. R. W. Johnson, may be transferred from Gen. Rosecrans command to that of Gen. Wright. Mr. Yeaman says he does this at the request of Gen. Johnson A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. February 13, 1863
I transmit to the Senate, in answer to their Resolution of the 12th instant, the accompanying report from the Secretary of State. Washington, February 13th, 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please examine & give me his opinion of this case. Feb. 13. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
February 14, 1863
Submitted to Gen. Halleck, with the remark that the object---matching the Cavalry raids of the enemy---is a most desireable one. The particular project, the Gen. in-Chief must judge of. Feb. 14. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, February 14, 1863.
Will you please let me see the papers mentioned to us some time last summer, by Gen. Halleck as convicting Fitz Henry Warren of fraud in connection with the payment of a regiment. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, Feb. 16. 1863.
Nathan Darling, Captain of the Capitol Police, was fined forty dollars and charged with costs, for arresting two persons in the Lobby of the Gallery of the H.R. on the occasion of Reading Washington's Farewell Address Feb. 22. 1863.  He supposing he was performing his official duty. The fine was imposed in the Criminal Court upon indictment. I have concluded to remit the fine, if considered lawful for me to do so. Please make out the proper paper, if you deem it within my power. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Submitted to the War-Department. If consistent with the public interest I would like for Gen. Logan to be obliged in this case. Feb. 16. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton and Gideon Welles
Hon. Secretary of War & Executive Mansion, Hon. Secretary of the Navy. Washington, February 16, 1863
Gentlemen Please appoint an officer from each of your Departments, for the purpose of testing the incendiary shell, & incendiary fluid, of A. Berney, and reporting to me whether it would be proper to introduce the shell, or the fluid, in some other form, one or both, into the Military or Naval service of the United States. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum: Appointment of Edgar Harriott
[c. February 17, 1863]
A direct descendant of one who never was a father.

Memorandum Concerning Interview with W. H. Tyler and Committee

The President will be pleased to see the Committee at 7. P.M. today. Feb. 17. 1863.

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Rosecrans. February 17, 1863.
My dear Sir:In no other way does the enemy give us so much trouble, at so little expence to himself, as by the raids of rapidly moving small bodies of troops (largely, if not wholly, mounted) harrassing, and discouraging loyal residents, supplying themselves with provisions, clothing, horses, and the like, surprising and capturing small detachments of our forces, and breaking our communications. And this will increase just in proportion as his larger armies shall weaken, and wane.  Nor can these raids be successfully met by even larger forces of our own, of the same kind, acting merely on the defensive . I think we should organize proper forces, and make counter-raids . We should not capture so much of supplies from them, as they have done from us; but it would trouble them more to repair railroads and bridges than it does us. What think you of trying to get up such a corps in your army? Could you do it without any, or many additional troops (which we have not to give you) provided we furnish horses, suitable arms, and other appointments? Please consider this, not as an order, but as a suggestion. Yours truly A. LINCOLN [ Endorsement ] While I wish the required arms to be furnished to Gen. Rosecrans, I have made no promise on the subject, except what you can find in the within copy of letter A. LINCOLN March 27, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate Executive Office, of the United States, February 17. 1863,
I transmit, herewith, for the constitutional action of the Senate thereon, a Treaty made and concluded, on the 3d. day of February 1863, between W. W. Ross, Commissioner, on the part of the United States, and the Chiefs and Head-men of the Pottowatomie Nation of Indians, of Kansas, which, it appears from the accompanying letter, from the Secretary of the Interior, of the 17th. instant, is intended to be amendatory of the treaty concluded with said Indians, on the 15th. November 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Timothy P. Andrews
PayMaster-General, Executive Mansion Dear Sir Washington, Feb. 18. 1863.
You will oblige me if you will send me in writing the items, and amount of each, in which Major Wilson received or charged , more than was lawful for him to take. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Henry R. Tucker
Executive Mansion Feb. 18. 1863
To-day, Hon. I. N. Arnold calls with Col. Tucker, of Chicago, and asks that his son, Henry Russell Tucker, 16 next July, be sent to West-Point. Col. T. has just lost his only other son in battle, & has himself been in charge of Camp Douglas.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 18, 1863
I transmit to the Senate for consideration, with a view to its ratification, an Additional Article to the treaty between the United States and Great Britain, of the 7th. of April, 1862, for the suppression of the African slave trade, which was concluded and signed at Washington on the 17th. instant by the Secretary of State and Her Britannic Majesty's Minister accredited to this Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 18th. Feby. 1863.

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion My dear Sir Feb. 18. 1863
I have two not very important matters, upon which I wish to consult the Cabinet. Please convene them, say at 10. A.M. tomorrow. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher

Sec. of Interior, please see my old friend, Dr. Henry, now from Oregon A. LINCOLN. Feb. 18. 1863.

To William H. Herndon
William H. Herndon Washington, D.C., Springfield, Ills. February 19. 1863
Would you accept a job of about a month's duration at St. Louis, five dollars a day & mileage? Answer. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 19, 1863
Congress on my recommendation passed a resolution, approved 7th February, 1863, tendering its thanks to Commodore Charles Henry Davis for ``distinguished service in conflict with the enemy at Fort Pillow, at Memphis, and for successful operations at other points in the waters of the Mississippi River.'' I therefore, in conformity with the 7th section of the act approved 16th July, 1862, nominate Commodore Charles Henry Davis to be a rear-admiral in the Navy, on the active list, from the 7th February, 1863. Captain John A. Dahlgren, having in said resolution of the 7th February, in like manner, received the thanks of Congress ``for distinguished service in the line of his profession, improvements in ordnance, and zealous and efficient labors in the ordnance branch of the service, I therefore, in conformity with the 7th section of the act of 16th July, 1862, nominate Captain John A. Dahlgren to be a rear-admiral in the Navy, on the active list, from the 7th February, 1863. The 9th section of the act of July, 1862, authorizes ``any line officer of the Navy or Marine Corps to be advanced one grade, if, upon recommendation of the President by name, he receives the thanks of Congress for highly distinguished conduct in conflict with the enemy, or for extraordinary heroism in the line of his profession;'' and Captain Stephen C. Rowan and Commander David D. Porter having each, on my recommendation, received the thanks of Congress for distinguished service, by resolution of the 7th February, 1863, I do therefore nominate Captain Stephen C. Rowan to be a commodore in the Navy, on the active list, from the 7th February, 1863. Commander David D. Porter to be a captain in the Navy, on the active list, from the 7 February, 1863. If this nomination should be confirmed there will be vacancies in the several grades to which these officers are nominated for promotion. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, D.C., 19th February, 1863.

To Thurlow Weed
Mr. T. Weed: Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Feb. 19, 1863.
The matters I spoke to you about are important; & I hope you will not neglect them. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If consistent with the service, I would like for my friend, Major Fell, to be obliged, as within requested. A. LINCOLN Feb. 20. 1863.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please send me a nomination according to the within. A. LINCOLN Feb. 21, 1863

Memoranda: Appointment of John Wilson
Executive Mansion, Washington, Feb. 21, 1863.
To-day Hon. John S. Watts, and many others from Arizona, ask that John Wilson, of Chicago be Surveyor General for that territory. John Wilson---Chicago. Surveyor General Arizona. I now understand Mr. Wilson does not desire this appointment. [February 23, 1863?]

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Washington, Feb. 21. 1863.
George W. Phipps, of Philda., is brother-in-law to Senator Foster; and I am led to think, he has more than common qualifications for, say, a Pay-Mastership. I shall really be glad if an Additional Pay Mastership can be given him. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 21, 1863
What says the Pay Master General to the case?

To Alexander Reed
Rev. Alexander Reed Executive Mansion My dear Sir Washington, February 22, 1863
Your note by which you, as General Superintendent of the U.S. Christian Commission, invite me to preside at a meeting to be held this day at the Hall of the House of Representatives in this city, is received. While, for reasons which I deem sufficient, I must decline to preside, I can not withhold my approval of the meeting, and it's worthy objects. Whatever shall be sincerely, and in God's name, devised for the good of the soldier and seaman, in their hard spheres of duty, can scarcely fail to be blest. And, whatever shall tend to turn our thoughts from the unreasoning, and uncharitable passions, prejudices, and jealousies incident to a great national trouble, such as ours, and to fix them upon the vast and long-enduring consequences, for weal, or for woe, which are to result from the struggle; and especially, to strengthen our reliance on the Supreme Being, for the final triumph of the right, can not but be well for us all. The birth-day of Washington, and the Christian Sabbath, coinciding this year, and suggesting together, the highest interests of this life, and of that to come, is most propitious for the meeting proposed. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Senator Wilson

Will Senator Wilson please call and see me. A. LINCOLN Feb. 23. 1863.

To Henry W. Halleck
Major Gen. Halleck Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, February 24. 1863.
This morning the West-Virginia delegation call and say that the enemy contemplate invading & over-running them, in the early Spring; and that, for this object, among other things they are building a plank-road from Staunton to Beverly. To meet this our friends are anxious, first, that the 7 Virginia Infantry, and the 1st. Virginia Cavalry both now under Gen. Hooker, may be sent back to West-Virginia. These regiments are greatly reduced, our having not more than one hundred and sixteen men. Secondly, they desire that, if, possible, a larger portion of their force in West-Virginia, should be mounted, in order to meet the increasing guerallaism with which they are annoyed & threatened. Can these things, or some of them, be done? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Hannibal Hamlin
The President of the War Department, Washington City, United States Senate. February 25th. 1863.
Sir. In answer to the Senate Resolution of the 21st inst. I have the honor to enclose herewith a letter of the 24th Inst. from the Secretary of War, by which it appears that there are 438 Assistant Quartermasters, 387 Commissaries of Subsistence, and 343 Additional Paymasters, now in the Volunteer Service, including those before the Senate for confirmation. I am, Sir, Very Respectfully Your Ob't Servant ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 25, 1863
I nominate Passed Midshipman Samuel Pearce and Nathaniel T. West, now on the retired list, to be ensigns in the Navy on the retired list. These nominations are made in conformity with the 4th section of the act to amend an act entitled ``An act to promote the efficiency of the Navy,'' approved 16 January, 1857, and are induced by the following considerations: The pay of a passed midshipman on the retired list as fixed by the ``Act for the better organization of the military establishment,'' approved 3d August, 1861, amounted, including rations, to $788 per annum. By the ``Act to establish and equalize the grade of line officers of the U.S. Navy,'' approved 16 July, 1862, the grade or rank of passed midshipman, which was the next below that of master, was discontinued and that of ensign was established, being now the next grade below that of master and the only grade in the line list between those of master and midshipman. The same act fixes the pay of officers on the retired list, omitting the grade of passed midshipman, and prohibits the allowance of rations to retired officers. The effect of this was to reduce the pay of a passed midshipman on the retired-list from $788 to $350 per annum, or less than half of previous rate. This was no doubt an unintended result of the law, operating exclusively on the two passed midshipmen then on the retired-list, and their promotion or transfer to the equivalent grade of ensign would not completely indemnify them, the pay of an ensign on the retired-list being only $500 per annum. It is the only relief however which is deemed within the intention of the existing laws, and it is the more willingly recommended in this case as there is nothing in the character of the officers to be relieved which would make it objectionable. These are the only cases of the kind. Washington, D.C., February 25, 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please send me a nomination according to the within. A. LINCOLN Feb. 26. 1863.

To Jesse K. Dubois
Hon. J. K. Dubois Washington, D.C., Springfield, Ills. February 26, 1863
Gen. Rosecrans repeatedly urges the appointment of William P. Carlin as a Brigadier General. What say you now? A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of William W. Danenhower
Feb. 26. 1863.
To-day William W. Danenhower says that the Fourth Auditor of the Treasury will probably resign in April next; and that if so, and when, he wishes to be appointed to the place.

To Edward Bates

If the judgment of the Attorney General concurs, let a pardon be made out, conditioned on taking oath and giving bond, as within. Feb. 27. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Major Gen. Hooker Washington, Feb. 27. 1863.
If it will be no detriment to the service I will be obliged for Capt. Henry A. Marchant, of Company I, 23rd. Pennsylvania Vols, to come here, and remain four or five days. A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery C. Meigs

What I said within for Lieutenant Baker to be a Commissary I now say for him to be a Quarter Master. A. LINCOLN. Feb 27-1863,

Memorandum: Appointment of John C. Mallery
Executive Mansion, Washington, Feb. 27. 1863.
To-day Hon. Mr. Babbitt, of Penn. strongly urges the appointment of John C. Mallery , son of Judge Garrick Mallery, for West-Point. Mr. Babbitt is very earnest & anxious on this subject.

MemorandumConcerning Report on California Trade

Several Senators and Representatives call this day and urge that this Resolution be attended to by the next meeting of Congress. Feb. 27. 1863.

To Alfred Russell and Charles Dickey
Alfred Russell & Charles Dickey Executive Mansion, Detroit, Mich. Washington, Feb. 27, 1863.
The bill you mention in your despatch of yesterday was approved and signed on the 24th. of this month. A. LINCOLN

To Barney Williams
Mr. Barney Williams Executive Mansion My dear Sir--- Washington, Feb. 27, 1863.
Your note of today is received. I do not think I can put your nephew among the first ten appointments now soon to be made. I really wish to oblige you; but the best I can do is to keep the papers, and try to find a place before long. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

MemorandumConcerning the New YorkHerald
[February 28, 1863?]
It is important to humor the Herald. Is there any objection to Hanscoms telegraphing the proclamation?

Proclamation Convening the Senate
February 28, 1863
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas objects of interest to the United States require that the Senate should be convened at twelve o'clock on the fourth of March next, to receive and act upon such communications as may be made to it on the part of the Executive: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, have considered it to be my duty to issue this my Proclamation, declaring that an extraordinary occasion requires the Senate of the United States to convene for the transaction of business at the Capitol, in the City of Washington, on the fourth day of March next, at twelve o'clock at noon on that day, of which all who shall at that time be entitled to act as members of that body are hereby required to take notice. [L.S.] Given under my hand and the seal of the United States at Washington, the twenty-eighth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America, the eighty-seventh. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 28, 1863
In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of the 26th. instant, requesting a copy of any correspondence which may have taken place between me and working men in England, I transmit the papers mentioned in the subjoined list. Washington, 28th. Feby. 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
February 28, 1863
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit for the consideration of Congress, a despatch to the Secretary of State from the United States Consul at Liverpool, and the address, to which it refers, of the distressed operatives of Blackburn, in England, to the New York Relief Committee, and to the inhabitants of the United States generally. Washington, 28th. Feby. 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Sec. of War. Feb. 28, 1863.
My dear Sir Mr. Eastman says you said he would have to come to me about the guns, or something to that effect. Do you know any law giving me control of the case? If so, please say so in writing. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Secretary of the Treasury: March 2, 1863.
My Dear Sir: After much reflection, and with a good deal of pain that it is adverse to your wish, I have concluded that it is not best to renominate Mr. Howard, for collector of internal revenue, at Hartford, Connecticut. Senator Dixon, residing at Hartford, and Mr. Loomis, representative of the district, join in recommending Edward Goodman for the place, and, so far, no one has presented a different name. I will thank you, therefore, to send me a nomination, at once, for Mr. Goodman. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 2, 1863.
My dear Sir: Your note in relation to the collectorship at Hartford is just received. It is a little difficult for me to read; but as I make it out, the matter is now temporarily suspended by agreement of yourself and Senator Dixon; and with which, of course, I am satisfied. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 2, 1863.
My dear Sir: I see an act under which an assistant collector of the port of New York is to be appointed. Nobody has applied to me for it. Have you any applications or any particular wishes upon the subject? Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March 2, 1863
To the Senate and House of Representatives I transmit to Congress a copy of a Preamble and Joint Resolutions of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of New Mexico, accepting the benefits of the Act of Congress approved the 2d of July, last, entitled ``An Act donating public Lands to the several States and Territories, which may provide colleges for the benefit of Agriculture and the Mechanic Arts.'' ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 2d March, 1863.

To David P. Holloway
March 4, 1863
The writer of this letter is an acquaintance and friend of mine, & I believe, an honest and true man, & I introduce him as such. A. LINCOLN.

To Miguel de San Roman
March 4, 1863
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Excellency The Marshal Don Miguel San Roman, Constitutional President of the Republic of Peru. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which you addressed to me on the 29th. October last, informing me of Your Excellency's elevation to the Presidency of the Republic by the free suffrages of your fellow-citizens and offering to me assurances of your desire to cultivate the relations established between our respective Governments. I congratulate your Excellency upon this token of the confidence of the people of Peru, and I am satisfied that your Excellency's experience and statesmanship will be constantly exerted for the best interests of the Republic. It shall be my constant desire so to conduct the relations of this Government that Your Excellency may always look to the United States as a faithful and true friend. I pray Your Excellency to accept the assurances of my earnest wishes for your personal happiness and for the prosperity of Peru. And so, commending you to the care of the Almighty, I remain Your Excellency's Good Friend. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. Washington, 4 March, 1863.

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Washington D.C., March 5, 1863.
Major General Hooker, Commanding Army of the Potomac: For business purposes, I have extended the leave of absence of Capt. Henry A. Merchant, [Marchant] 23d Pennsylvania volunteers, five days, hoping that it will not interfere with the public service. Please notify the regiment to-day. A. LINCOLN.

Receipt from Francis E. Spinner
March 5, 1863
Received, March 5. 1863. of A. Lincoln, President of the United States the sum mentioned within, in ``Green-backs'' F. E. SPINNER Treasurer of the United States

Memorandum Concerning Henry Baxter
[Executive Mansio]n [Washington, Mar]ch 6. 1863.
Senator Chandler says Col. Baxter crossed the Rappahannock with boats when Pontoniers shrunk back.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If this appointment can be consistently made, I shall be glad. March 6. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 7, 1863.
Please call over, and bring the ``Marque & Reprisal'' bill with you. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 7, 1863
I incline to think there is some mistake in this case. Will the Sec. of War please inquire what Gen. Hooker personally knows about it? A. LINCOLN March 7. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 7, 1863
According to appointment I had a talk with Gen. Fremont last evening. I promised to try to have him told something definite by this evening. Please see Gen. Halleck to-day; and if you can get him half agreed, I agree.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I understand the Secretary of War, knows of this case, and I incline to think something should be done in it. A. LINCOLN March 7, 1863.

To Benjamin F. Wade

Will the Committee please call and see me at, say 8. o'clock this evening? A. LINCOLN March 7. 1863.

To Montgomery Blair

I very cheerfully indorse the above indorsers, knowing nothing of Mr. Christy. A. LINCOLN March 9. 1863.

Endorsement

Can any thing be done for this Lady-friend of Marshal Lamon? I do not see how. A. LINCOLN March 9. 1863

To Anson G. Henry
March 9, 1863
I know not except the Secretary of the Treasury tells me the report shows that Mr. Stevens has already had a full hearing of the charges and evidence. The report is to be shown to me. March 9, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Hon. Joseph Holt Executive Mansion, Judge Advocate General. Washington, My dear Sir March 9. 1863.
I understand there is one vacancy of a Judge Advocate, under the 6th. section of the same act under which you hold your appointment. If so, please indorse on this sheet, your opinion as to whether, with reference to the service, the vacancy should now be filled; and also what army the appointee shall be assigned to. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Joseph W. Fisher
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 9, 1863.
Hon. Mr. Stevens asks that J. W. Fisher, now Colonel of a Penn. Regt. & commanding a Brigade, may take the place of the Gen. caught at Fairfax last night.

Memorandum Concerning William F. Smith
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 9, 1863.
To-day, Gen. Wm. F. Smith calls and asks that his nomination heretofore as a Major General, and his acceptance of it, by being assigned to, and taking command as a Major General, may be taken and held to be a vacation of his office as a Brigadier General of Volunteers, so that he can again take his place in the regular army. He would also like to have a leave of absence of as long as the service will admit.

Memorandum Concerning Joseph Snider
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 9, 1863.
To-day, Senator Bowden, with Mr. Boyd, & Mr. Hawxhurst,  one an editor & one a member of the Legislature, call and ask that Col. Joseph Snider, of the 7th. Va. now in the A.P. be a Brigadier General. He has been three times hit,---twice at Antietam with but slight injury, and once very serverly at Fredericksburg. Also has had two horses shot under him. They say Gov. Pierpoint & many of the Legislature [are] for him. He resides in Monongalia Co. West Virginia.

To Mrs. L. H. Phipps
Executive Mansion, Mrs. L. H. Phipps Washington, March 9, 1863.
Yours of the 8th. is received. It is difficult for you to understand, what is, nevertheless true, that the bare reading of a letter of that length requires more than any one person's share of my time. And when read, what is it but an evidence that you intend to importune me for one thing, and another, and another, until, in self-defence, I must drop all and devote myself to find a place, even though I remove somebody else to do it, and thereby turn him & his friends upon me for indefinite future importunity, and hindrance from the legitimate duties for which I am supposed to be placed here.? Yours &c. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, March 9. 1863.
A few days since I gave the lady, bearer of this, Mrs. Phipps, some sort of writing, favoring the appointment of her husband to be an Additional PayMaster. She thinks she failed because the application was made as from Pennsylvania, and says that it could & can be justly made from Tennessee. Please let her have it, if you consistently can either from Tennessee or any where else. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 9. 1863.
Please make up the order to-day, sending Gen. Sumner to Missouri---it being understood that he finishes up the Court-Martial, which will be done in two or three days. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To David Tod
Gov. David Tod Executive Mansion, Columbus, O. Washington, March 9. 1863.
I think your advice, with that of others, would be valuable, in the selection of Provost-Marshals for Ohio. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Leopold O. Parker
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 10, 1863.
To-day, Leopold C. P. Cooper, of Norfolk, Va. asks that his adopted son, Leopold O. Parker, may go to West-Point. Is now in his 20th. year. Mr. Cooper says there are papers on file, from Senators Bowden & Willey. Also Messrs. Brown, Blair & Segar. 

Proclamation Granting Amnesty to Soldiers Absent without Leave
Executive Mansion, March 10, 1863.
In pursuance of the twenty-sixth section of the act of Congress, entitled ``An act for enrolling and calling out the National Forces, and for other purposes,'' approved on the third day of March, in the year one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, I ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President and Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, do hereby order and command, that all soldiers enlisted or drafted into the service of the United States, now absent from their regiments without leave, shall forthwith return to their respective regiments. And I do hereby declare and proclaim, that all soldiers now absent from their respective regiments without leave, who shall, on or before the first day of April, 1863, report themselves at any rendezvous designated by the General Orders of the War Department number fifty-eight, hereto annexed, may be restored to their respective regiments without punishment, except the forfeiture of pay and allowances during their absence; and all who do not return within the time above specified shall be arrested as deserters, and punished as the law provides. And whereas evil disposed and disloyal persons at sundry places have enticed and procured soldiers to desert and absent themselves from their regiments, thereby weakening the strength of the armies and prolonging the war, giving aid and comfort to the enemy, and cruelly exposing the gallant and faithful soldiers remaining in the ranks to increased hardships and danger, I do therefore call upon all patriotic and faithful citizens to oppose and resist the aforementioned dangerous and treasonable crimes, and to aid in restoring to their regiments all soldiers absent without leave, and to assist in the execution of the act of Congress ``for enrolling and calling out the national forces, and for other purposes,'' and to support the proper authorities in the prosecution and punishment of offenders against said act, and in suppressing the insurrection and rebellion. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington, this tenth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-seventh. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: EDWIN M. STANTON, Secretary of War.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General, please make out & send me a pardon for Wilbur Buckheart. The papers are with you. A. LINCOLN March 11. 1863.

Memorandum:Appointment of Edward E. Cross
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 11. 1863
This morning Senator Hale calls with Col. Edward E. Cross of 5. N.H. volunteers, asking that he may be a Brig. Gen. The Col. says he is the senior Colonel of the A.P. He has been in several battles, has been nine times hit, and appeals to his military record.

Memorandum: Appointment of Odon Guitar
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 11. 1863.
Major Rollins calls and again urges that, if possible, Col. Odon Guitar, be a Brigadier General. I believe the case is a meritorious [one].

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 11, 1863
Submitted to the Sec. of War, with the remark, that the experiment of filling up the authorized four regiments better be made, without wasting time to get up the framework of two more. March 11. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Charles Sumner
Hon. Charles Sumner Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 11. 1863
I still have no name for Solicitor to go to Peru. Have you? Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To John P. Usher
March 11, 1863
If there be a vacancy at the place named, let the appointment within requested, be made. If there be two vacancies, let this appointment be to the lower one A. LINCOLN March 11. 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: March 12, 1863
I herewith transmit to the Senate, for its consideration and ratification, a treaty with the chiefs and headmen of the Chippewas of the Mississippi and the Pillagers and Lake Winibigoshish bands of Chippewa Indians. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, March 12, 1863.

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Major General Hooker: Washington, March 13, 1863.
General Stahl wishes to be assigned to General Heintzelman, and General Heintzelman also desires it. I would like to oblige both if it will not injure the service in your army or incommode you. What say you? A. LINCOLN.

To William W. Morris
Executive Mansion, To the Commandant at Fort McHenry: March 13, 1863.
General:--- You will deliver to the bearer, Mrs. Winston, her son, now held a prisoner of war in Fort McHenry, and permit her to take him where she will, upon his taking the proper parole never again to take up arms against the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Isabel II
March 14, 1863
Abraham Lincoln. President of the United States of America. To Her Majesty Dona Isabel II. By the Grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy, Queen of Spain Great and Good Friend I have received the letter which your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 28th. of December announcing that the Duchess of Montpensier Your Majestys beloved sister had on the 12th of the same month happly given birth to a Prince who has received at the holy baptismal font the names of Petro de Alcantana Maria de Gudalupe Isabel Francisco de Asis Gabriel Sebastian Christina I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event and offer my sincere congratulations upon the occasion May God have, Your Majesty always in His holy keeping Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington 14. March 1863 By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

Memorandum: Promotion of George Sangster
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 14, 1863.
To-day, Gov. Hicks, with Col. Walton, Member of Md. Leg. & Mr. Ireland, Post-Master at Anapolis, and ask that Col. George Sangster, of N.Y. be promoted. These Md. people make his acquaintance [from] his commanding paroled camp at Anapolis. Senator Harris, is also for him.

Memorandum Concerning Isaac H. Duval
March 16. 1863
H. W. Crothers, aid to Gov. Pierpoint, on behalf of the Governor & himself, asks that Col. Isaac H. Duval, of W. Virginia, & now at Winchester with Milroy, be a Brigadier General. They want him in West-Virginia, Lightburn  being in Tennessee with Rosecrans. Senator Bowden joins in the request. Both say they wish Milroy to command in West-Virginia

Memorandum: Appointment of Henry Stevens
March 16. 1863.
To-day Mr. Whaley of W. V. calls and says he has nothing to fall back upon now, except to have Rev. Mr. Stevens, appointed a chaplain for the hospital at Charleston, Kanhawa Co. Va

To Jesse O. Norton
Hon. J. O. Norton Executive Mansion, Joliet, Ills. Washington, March 16. 1863.
William Chumasero, is proposed for Provost-Marshal of your District. What think you of it? I understand he is a good man A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please see & hear Capt. Deaw [Dean?]. March 16, 1863 A. LINCOLN

Memorandum: Removal of John Lockwood
[c. March 17, 1863]
I agree to this when P.M.G. sends me the papers.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major Genl. Rosecrans Executive Mansion, Murfreesboro, Tenn. Washington, March 17, 1863.
Your telegram of yesterday just received. I write you more fully than I could communicate by the wires. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion, Major General Rosecrans Washington, March 17, 1863.
My dear Sir. I have just received your telegram saying that ``The Secy. of War telegraphed after the battle of Stone River'' `Anything you & your command want, you can have,''' and then specifying several things you have requested, and have not received. The promise of the Secretary, as you state it, is certainly pretty broad; nevertheless it accords with the feeling of the whole government here towards you. I know not a single enemy of yours here. Still the promise must have a reasonable construction. We know you will not purposely make an unreasonable request; nor persist in one after it shall appear to be such. Now, as to the matter of a Pay-Master. You desired one to be permanently attached to your Army, and, as I understand, desired that Major Larned should be the man. This was denied you; and you seem to think it was denied, partly to disoblige you, and partly to disoblige Major Larned---the latter, as you suspect, at the instance of Paymaster-General Andrews. On the contrary, the Secretary of War assures me the request was refused on no personal ground, whatever, but because to grant it, would derange, and substantially break up the whole pay-system as now organized, and so organized on very full consideration, and sound reason as believed. There is powerful temptation in money; and it was and is believed that nothing can prevent the Pay-Masters speculating upon the soldiers, but a system by which each is to pay certain regiments so soon after he has notice that he is to pay those particular regiments that he has no time or opportunity to lay plans for speculating upon them. This precaution is all lost, if Paymasters respectively are to serve permanently with the same regiments, and pay them over and over during the war. No special application of this has been intended to be made to Major Larned, or to your Army. And as to Gen. Andrews, I have, in another connection, felt a little agrieved, at what seemed to me, his implicit following the advice and suggestions of Major Larned---so ready are we all to cry out, and ascribe motives, when our own toes are pinched. Now, as to your request that your Commission should date from December 1861. Of course you expected to gain something by this; but you should remember that precisely so much as you should gain by it others would lose by it. If the thing you sought had been exclusively ours, we would have given it cheerfully; but being the right of other men, we having a merely arbitrary power over it, the taking it from them and giving it to you, became a more delicate matter, and more deserving of consideration. Truth to speak, I do not appreciate this matter of rank on paper, as you officers do. The world will not forget that you fought the battle of ``Stone River'' and it will never care a fig whether you rank Gen. Grant on paper, or he so, ranks you. As to the appointment of an aid contrary to your wishes, I knew nothing of it until I received your despatch; and the Secretary of War tells me he has known nothing of it, but will trace it out. The examination of course will extend to the case of R. S. Thoms, whom you say you wish appointed. And now be assured, you wrong both yourself and us, when you even suspect there is not the best disposition on the part of us all here to oblige you. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Joshua F. Speed
Confidential . Executive Mansion, My dear Speed Washington, March 17. 1863.
I understand a Danville, Illinoisian, by the name of Lyman Guinnip, is under an indictment at Louisville, something about slaves. I knew him slightly. He was not of bad character at home, and I scarcely think he is guilty of any real crime. Please try if you can not slip him through. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Davis
Hon. H. W. Davis Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 18. 1863.
There will be, in the new House of Representatives, as there were in the old, some members openly opposing the war, some supporting it unconditionally , and some supporting it with ``buts'' and ``ifs'' and ``ands.'' They will divide on the organization of the House---on the election of Speaker. As you ask my opinion, I give it that the supporters of the war should send no man to congress who will not  go into caucus with the unconditional supporters of the war, and abide the action of such caucus, and support in the House,  the person therein nominated for Speaker. Let the friends of the government first save the government, and then administer it to their own liking. Yours truly A. LINCOLN. P.S. This is not for publication, but to prevent any  misunderstanding of what I verbally said to you yesterday. A. L.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, March 19, 1863.
Hon. John A. Gurley, Gov. of Arizona, wishes one of the Colorado regiments, to be placed where it can give protection to that Territory; and he also wishes authority to raise one regiment in the territory. I wish you and the General-in-Chief, would consider whether these things, one or both, can not be safely & profitably done? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Secretary of War please give Mr. Theobald as early an appointment as possible, for a hearing of his business? March 19. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher
Hon. Sec. of Interior Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, March 19, 1863.
Levi J. Keithly was nominated for Indian Agent for New-Mexico, and the nomination fell by the non-action of the Senate. Please send me a recess appointment for him. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
`` Cypher '' Major Gen. Hurlbut Executive Mansion, Memphis, Tenn. Washington, March 20 [25?], 1863
What news have you? What from Vickburg? What from Yazoo-Pass? What from Lake Providence? What generally? A. LINCOLN.

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 20. 1863.
Whom it may concern Whereas it appears to my satisfaction that Thomas W. Knox, a correspondent of the New-York Herald, has been, by the sentence of a Court-Martial, excluded from the Military Department under command of Major General Grant, and also that Gen. Thayer,  president of the court Martial which rendered the sentence, and Major General McClernand in command of a corps of that Department, and many other respectable persons, are of opinion that Mr. Knox's offence was technical, rather than wilfully wrong, and that the sentence should be revoked, now therefore said sentence is hereby so far revoked as to allow Mr. Knox to return to Gen. Grant's Head-Quarters, and to remain, if Gen. Grant shall give his express assent; and to again leave the Department, if Gen. Grant shall refuse such assent. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
March 21, 1863
Will the Secretary of the Treasury do me the favor to hear my old friend Dr. Henry briefly, about Victor Smith. A. LINCOLN.

MemorandumAppointment of Erasmus Dennison
[c. March 21, 1863]
West-Point---for next year---now 1863, then 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the Sec. of War approves, let the man Martin, be released March 21. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
March 23, 1863
Submitted to the Sec. of Treasury. Mr. Williamson, writer of the within was our ``Willie's'' teacher; and I would be really glad for him to be obliged. A. LINCOLN March 23. 1863.

Memorandum
[c. March 23, 1863]
The President would like to see the gentlemen who sent in a letter from the Philadelphia Board of Trade, dated the 23rd. Inst.

To Horatio Seymour
Private & Confidential His Excellency Executive Mansion, Gov. Seymour Washington, March 23, 1863.
Dear Sir:  You and I are substantially strangers; and I write this chiefly that we may become better acquainted. I, for the time being, am at the head of a nation which is in great peril; and you are at the head of the greatest State of that nation. As to maintaining the nation's life, and integrity,  I assume, and believe, there can not be a difference of purpose between you and me. If we should differ as to the means , it is important that such difference should be as small as possible---that it should not be enhanced by unjust suspicions on one side or the other. In the performance of my duty, the co-operation of your State, as that of others, is needed---in fact, is indispensable. This alone is a sufficient reason why I should wish to be at  a good understanding with you. Please write me at least as long a letter as this---of course, saying in it, just what you think fit. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
March 24, 1863
Hon. Secretary of the Treasury: Please see and hear Miss Upton (Upton's Hill) who now has employment in your department and fears she may lose it. A. LINCOLN. March 24. 1863.

Memorandum Concerning Charles Wiegand
March 24, 1863
I think this man, Charles Wiegand, called on me once, or oftener; but I really know nothing as to his capacity or merit. If a Brigade was promised him by the War Department I know nothing of it; and not knowing whether he is fit for any place I could not with propriety, recommend him for any. A. LINCOLN March 24. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 24, 1863
Let James H. Ledlie . . . be made a Brigadier General, if it is legally possible. I doubt if it is admissable, but if it is, let his appointment date from the Goldsboro battle.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Can not this sum of 250,000 be paid at once? Sec. of War, please tell me. A. LINCOLN March 24. 1863.

Commutation of Sentence of James S. Pleasants
March 25, 1863.
The sentence of death in this case is hereby commuted to imprisonment for during the war, in one of the military prisons to be designated by the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin Gratz
Mr. Benjamin Gratz. Executive Mansion, Lexington, Ky. Washington, March 25, 1863.
Show this to whom it may concern as your authority for allowing Mrs. Shelby to remain at your house, so long as you choose to be responsible for what she may do. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Major Gen. Rosecrans Executive Mansion, Murfreesboro Tenn. Washington, March 25, 1863.
Your despatches about Gen. Davis and Gen. Mitchell are received. Gen. Davis' case is not peculiar, being simply one of a great many recommended, and not nominated, because they would transcend the number allowed by the law. Gen. Mitchell was nominated and rejected by the Senate; and I do not think it proper for me to re-nominate him without a change of circumstances, such as the performance of additional service, or an expressed change of purpose on the part of at least some Senators who opposed him. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 25, 1863
The writer of the within,---Charles King---is President of Columbia College, N.Y.---son of the Rufus King of revolutionary memory, and, I believe, father of our Gen. Rufus King. If his request within, can be consistently granted, I shall be glad. March 25. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I remember nothing about this case; but if there is an order of mine, such as stated within, let the appointed at once [ sic ]? March 25. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Private Hon. Andrew Johnson Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 26, 1863.
I am told you have at least thought of raising a negro military force. In my opinion the country now needs no specific thing so much as some man of your ability, and position, to go to this work. When I speak of your position, I mean that of an eminent citizen of a slave-state, and himself a slave-holder. The colored population is the great available and yet unavailed of, force for restoring the Union. The bare sight of fifty thousand armed, and drilled black soldiers on the banks of the Mississippi, would end the rebellion at once. And who doubts that we can present that sight, if we but take hold in earnest? If you have been thinking of it please do not dismiss the thought. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery C. Meigs

Quarter-Master-General please see the bearer a moment. March 26. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

I do not remember how the record stands. Have appointments been made, as indicated within? A. LINCOLN March 27. 1863.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 27, 1863.
Dear Sir: Governor Dickinson's business was rather with you than with me. His friend with him, Edward J. Westcott, has been trading at Newbern, and is hindered from renewing his business there. Please oblige the governor and Mr. Westcott so far as you consistently can. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Robert B. Nay
[c. March 27, 1863]
I will not say thee ``Nay.''

Speech to Indians
March 27, 1863
``You have all spoken of the strange sights you see here, among your pale-faced brethren; the very great number of people that you see; the big wigwams; the difference between our people and your own. But you have seen but a very small part of the palefaced people. You may wonder when I tell you that there are people here in this wigwam, now looking at you, who have come from other countries a great deal farther off than you have come. ``We pale-faced people think that this world is a great, round ball, and we have people here of the pale-faced family who have come almost from the other side of it to represent their nations here and conduct their friendly intercourse with us, as you now come from your part of the round ball.'' Here a globe was introduced, and the President, laying his hand upon it, said: ``One of our learned men will now explain to you our notions about this great ball, and show you where you live.'' Professor Henry then gave the delegation a detailed and interesting explanation of the formation of the earth, showing how much of it was water and how much was land; and pointing out the countries with which we had intercourse. He also showed them the position of Washington and that of their own country, from which they had come. The President then said: ``We have people now present from all parts of the globe---here, and here, and here. There is a great difference between this palefaced people and their red brethren, both as to numbers and the way in which they live. We know not whether your own situation is best for your race, but this is what has made the difference in our way of living. ``The pale-faced people are numerous and prosperous because they cultivate the earth, produce bread, and depend upon the products of the earth rather than wild game for a subsistence. ``This is the chief reason of the difference; but there is another. Although we are now engaged in a great war between one another, we are not, as a race, so much disposed to fight and kill one another as our red brethren. ``You have asked for my advice. I really am not capable of advising you whether, in the providence of the Great Spirit, who is the great Father of us all, it is best for you to maintain the habits and customs of your race, or adopt a new mode of life. ``I can only say that I can see no way in which your race is to become as numerous and prosperous as the white race except by living as they do, by the cultivation of the earth. ``It is the object of this Government to be on terms of peace with you, and with all our red brethren. We constantly endeavor to be so. We make treaties with you, and will try to observe them; and if our children should sometimes behave badly, and violate these treaties, it is against our wish. ``You know it is not always possible for any father to have his children do precisely as he wishes them to do. ``In regard to being sent back to your own country, we have an officer, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, who will take charge of that matter, and make the necessary arrangements.'' The President's remarks were received with frequent marks of applause and approbation. ``Ugh,'' ``Aha'' sounded along the line as the interpreter proceeded, and their countenances gave evident tokens of satisfaction.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 27. 1863.
To-day Mr. Blake, of Indianapolis, asks 1. Capt. Aiken be promoted 2. Col. William H. Blake of the 9th. be promoted. 3. Col. John W. Blake of the 40th. be promoted. 4. That himself---James Blake---have something. [Endorsement] Submitted to the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN March. 30. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please have me informed as to what ground Capt. O'Hara was dismissed upon. A. LINCOLN March 27, 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 27, 1863
Sec. of War, please see this man, who is well recommended by Mayor Opdyke. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

If there be any vacancy of a Lieutenant of Marines, I really wish the appointment within requested to be made. A. LINCOLN March 27. 1863.

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Private Major General Banks Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 29, 1863.
Hon. Daniel Ullmann, with a commission of Brigadier General, and two or three hundred other gentlemen as officers, goes to your department and reports to you, for the purpose of raising a colored brigade. To now avail ourselves of this element of force, is very important, if not indispensable. I therefore will thank you to help Gen. Ullmann forward with his undertaking, as much, and as rapidly, as you can; and also to carry the general object beyond his particular organization if you find it practicable. The necessity of this is palpable if, as I understand, you are now unable to effect anything with your present force; and which force is soon to be greatly diminished by the expiration of terms of service, as well as by ordinary causes. I shall be very glad if you will take hold of the matter in earnest. You will receive from the Department a regular order upon this subject. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. E.M. Stanton March 29. 1863
Sir I fear---in fact, believe---the despatch you mentioned is utter humbuggery. I have tracked it up & found that it came from Cairo last-night to the New-York-Mercury, was printed in that paper of this morning, which came by mail to Philadelphia & is thence telegraphed to Capt. Fox  Now, is it not past belief that such news would be at Cairo that length of time, and not be sent directly to us---especially as Pennock  is under strict orders to send every thing promptly. Besides there are no six-iron-clads, nor 15000 men at Vicksburg to pass through the canal, even if the Mississippi river had risen fifteen feet in as many minutes. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Appointing a National Fast Day
March 30, 1863
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. Whereas, the Senate of the United States, devoutly recognizing the Supreme Authority and just Government of Almighty God, in all the affairs of men and of nations, has, by a resolution, requested the President to designate and set apart a day for National prayer and humiliation: And whereas it is the duty of nations as well as of men, to own their dependence upon the overruling power of God, to confess their sins and transgressions, in humble sorrow, yet with assured hope that genuine repentance will lead to mercy and pardon; and to recognize the sublime truth, announced in the Holy Scriptures and proven by all history, that those nations only are blessed whose God is the Lord: And, insomuch as we know that, by His divine law, nations like individuals are subjected to punishments and chastisements in this world, may we not justly fear that the awful calamity of civil war, which now desolates the land, may be but a punishment, inflicted upon us, for our presumptuous sins, to the needful end of our national reformation as a whole People? We have been the recipients of the choicest bounties of Heaven. We have been preserved, these many years, in peace and prosperity. We have grown in numbers, wealth and power, as no other nation has ever grown. But we have forgotten God. We have forgotten the gracious hand which preserved us in peace, and multiplied and enriched and strengthened us; and we have vainly imagined, in the deceitfulness of our hearts, that all these blessings were produced by some superior wisdom and virtue of our own. Intoxicated with unbroken success, we have become too self-sufficient to feel the necessity of redeeming and preserving grace, too proud to pray to the God that made us! It behooves us then, to humble ourselves before the offended Power, to confess our national sins, and to pray for clemency and forgiveness. Now, therefore, in compliance with the request, and fully concurring in the views of the Senate, I do, by this my proclamation, designate and set apart Thursday, the 30th. day of April, 1863, as a day of national humiliation, fasting and prayer. And I do hereby request all the People to abstain, on that day, from their ordinary secular pursuits, and to unite, at their several places of public worship and their respective homes, in keeping the day holy to the Lord, and devoted to the humble discharge of the religious duties proper to that solemn occasion. All this being done, in sincerity and truth, let us then rest humbly in the hope authorized by the Divine teachings, that the united cry of the Nation will be heard on high, and answered with blessings, no less than the pardon of our national sins, and the restoration of our now divided and suffering Country, to its former happy condition of unity and peace. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L. S.] Done at the City of Washington, this thirtieth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty seventh. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To William A. Hammond

Let Rev. James Gubby be appointed Hospital Chaplain, to serve at the Hospital at Hilton-Head South-Carolina. March 31. 1863. A. LINCOLN

License of Commercial Intercourse
Washington, Executive Mansion, March 31, 1863.
Whereas, by the act of Congress approved July 13, 1861, entitled ``An act to provide for the collection of duties on imports, and for other purposes,'' all commercial intercourse between the inhabitants of such States as should by proclamation be declared in insurrection against the United States and the citizens of the rest of the United States, was prohibited so long as such conditions of hostility should continue, except as the same shall be licensed and permitted by the President to be conducted and carried on only in pursuance of rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury; and whereas it appears that a partial restoration of such intercourse between the inhabitants of sundry places and sections heretofore declared in insurrection in pursuance of said act, and the citizens of the rest of the United States, will favorably affect the public interests: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, exercising the authority and discretion confided to me by the said act of Congress, do hereby license and permit such commercial intercourse between the citizens of loyal States and the inhabitants of such insurrectionary States in the cases and under the restrictions described and expressed in the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, bearing even date with these presents, or in such other regulations as he may hereafter, with my approval, prescribe. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To David Hunter
Private Executive Mansion Major General Hunter Washington D.C. April 1. 1863.
My dear Sir: I am glad to see the accounts of your colored force at Jacksonville, Florida. I see the enemy are driving at them fiercely, as is to be expected. It is important to the enemy that such a force shall not take shape, and grow, and thrive, in the South; and in precisely the same proportion, it is important to us that it shall . Hence the utmost caution and vigilance is necessary on our part. The enemy will make extra efforts to destroy them; and we should do the same to preserve and increase them. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order for Pardon and Release of John O. Brown
War Department Washington City, Ordered April 1 1863
That John O Brown under sentence of death by judgment of a Court Martial at Indianapolis be and he is hereby pardoned and absolved from the sentence aforesaid; and that he be released from imprisonment and discharged from the service of the United States. By order of the President. A. LINCOLN EDWIN M STANTON Secretary of War

To William Lilley
Capt. William Lilly Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, April 2, 1863.
Possibly there has been some misunderstanding in your case. You were nominated to, and rejected by the Senate. I have thought it a good rule, and have tried to act upon it, not to renominate any one whom the Senate has already rejected, unless I have evidence that the Senate would do differently on a second trial. In your case I now distinctly say that if any Senator, continuing in the Senate, will say in writing, that he voted against you, and that he has since investigated the case, and would now vote for you, and that he believes you would now be confirmed, I will renominate you. Without this, or something as strong, I can not do it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Proclamation about Commercial Intercourse
April 2, 1863
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. Whereas, in pursuance of the Act of Congress, approved July 13, 1861, I did, by Proclamation dated August 16, 1861, declare that the inhabitants of the States of Georgia, South Carolina, Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi and Florida (except the inhabitants of that part of Virginia lying West of the Alleghany mountains and of such other parts of that State and the other States hereinbefore named as might maintain a legal adhesion to the Union and the Constitution or might be, from time to time, occupied and controlled by forces of the United States engaged in the dispersion of said insurgents) were in a state of insurrection against the United States and that all commercial intercourse between the same and the inhabitants thereof, with the exceptions aforesaid, and the citizens of other States and other parts of the United States was unlawful and would remain unlawful until such insurrection should cease or be suppressed, and that all goods and chattels, wares and merchandise, coming from any of said States, with the exceptions aforesaid, into other parts of the United States, without the license and permission of the President, through the Secretary of the Treasury, or proceeding to any of said States, with the exceptions aforesaid, by land or water, together with the vessel or vehicle conveying the same to or from said States, with the exceptions aforesaid, would be forfeited to the United States: And whereas, experience has shown that the exceptions made in and by said Proclamation embarrass the due enforcement of said Act of July 13, 1861, and the proper regulation of the commercial intercourse authorized by said Act with the loyal citizens of said States: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby revoke the said exceptions, and declare that the inhabitants of the States of Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee, Alabama, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi, Florida and Virginia (except the forty-eight counties of Virginia designated as West Virginia, and except, also, the ports of New Orleans, Key West, Port Royal and Beaufort in North Carolina) are in a state of insurrection against the United States, and that all commercial intercourse not licensed and conducted as provided in said Act between the said States and the inhabitants thereof, with the exceptions aforesaid, and the citizens of other States and other parts of the United States, is unlawful and will remain unlawful until such insurrection shall cease or has been suppressed, and notice thereof has been duly given by Proclamation; and all cotton, tobacco and other products, and all other goods and chattels, wares and merchandise, coming from any of said States, with the exceptions aforesaid, into other parts of the United States, or proceeding to any of said States, with the exceptions aforesaid, without the license and permission of the President, through the Secretary of the Treasury, will, together with the vessel or vehicle conveying the same, be forfeited to the United States. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this 2d. day of April, A.D. 1863, and of the Independence of the United States of America, the eighty seventh. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Charles F. Adams
Hon. Charles F. Adams. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, April 3. 1863
This will introduce to you, Rev. John M. Sturtevant, President of Illinois College. He visits Europe in no official character. He is a worthy and capable gentleman; and also is one of my most highly valued personal friends. I shall be much obliged for any kind attentions you may find it convenient to show him. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Major General Hooker Washington, April 3, 1863.
Our plan is to pass Saturday-night on the boat; go over from Acquia-creek to your camp Sunday morning; remain with you till Tuesday morning, and then return. Our party will probably not exceed six persons of all sorts. A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

The writer of this is a true man to my personal knowledge; and if there can be a way found to oblige him I shall be glad. April 3, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher

What, if anything, does the Sec. of Interior know about this? Apl. 3. 1863. A LINCOLN

To Isabel II
April 4, 1863
Abraham Lincoln. President of the United States of America To Her Majesty Dona Isabel II. By the Grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy, Queen of Spain, &c. &c Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 30th. of January last announcing that Her Royal Highness the Infanta Dona Maria Cristina, had, on the 17th. of that month happily given birth to a son, who has received at the holy baptismal font the names of Luis Jesus, Maria Isabel, Jose, Francisco de Asis Sebastian I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event, and offer my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, April 4th 1863 By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

Memorandum:Appointment of John M. K. Davis
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 4, 1863.
Miss Davis calls & asks for the appointment of her brother---John M. K. Davis---as a cadet---Nineteen last January---resides here where also he was born. If any of the present batch slip up I am to consider young Mr. Davis.

Memorandum Concerning Harbor Defenses
April 4, 1863
On this general subject, I respectfully refer Mr. Browne to the Secretaries of War and Navy for conferrence and consultation. I have a single idea of my own about harbor defences It is a Steam ram, built so as to sacrifice nearly all capacity for carrying, to those of speed and strength, so as to be able to split any vessel having hollow enough in her to carry supplies for a voyage of any distance. Such ram, of course could not her self carry supplies for a voyage of considerable distance; and her business would be to guard a particular harbour, as a Bull-dog guards his master's door. April 4, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Isaac Newton
Executive Mansion Dear Sir: Washington, April 4th. 1863.
You will please detail Dr. C. M. Wetherill Chief Chemist and F. G. Murray, Esq both of your Department for special service, to report to Capn. I. R. Diller at Philadelphia Pa for one month from date, also giving Dr. Wetherill permission to close his laboratory in the Agricultural Department during that period, and to take its key with him for the security of its contents during his absence. Yours Truly ABRAHAM LINCOLN The Commissioner of Agriculture

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 4, 1863
Sec. of War please see Hon. Mr. Marvin, who recommends J. P. Butler, for Provost-Marshal for his Dist. I think attention to this case is necessary. A. LINCOLN April 4, 1863.

Appointment of Charles E. Mix
Executive Office April 6th. 1863.
I hereby appoint Charles E. Mix to be Acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs, during the temporary absence of the Hon. William P. Dole, from the Seat of Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Memorandum of Army Strength
[c. April 6, 1863]
Technically Present for duty	136,724		--- On other duty	33,188		---		169,912 Sick, absent & in arrest	44,855 ------- 214,767

Memorandum on Joseph Hooker's Plan of Campaign Against Richmond
[c. April 6-10, 1863]
My opinion is, that just now, with the enemy directly ahead of us, there is no eligible route for us into Richmond; and consequently a question of preference between the Rappahannock route, and the James River route is a contest about nothing. Hence our prime object is the enemies' army in front of us, and is not with, or about, Richmond---at all, unless it be incidental to the main object. What then? The two armies are face to face with a narrow river between them. Our communications are shorter and safer than are those of the enemy. For this reason, we can, with equal powers fret him more than he can us. I do not think that by raids towards Washington he can derange the Army of the Potomac at all. He has no distant opperations which can call any of the Army of the Potomac away; we have such operations which may call him away, at least in part. While he remains in tact, I do not think we should take the disadvantage of attacking him in his entrenchments; but we should continually harrass and menace him, so that he shall have no leisure, nor safety in sending away detachments. If he weakens himself, then pitch into him.

Authorization for Peter H. Watson
April 7. 1863.
Peter H. Watson, Esq, Assistant Secretary of War is authorized to perform the duties of Secretary of War during the temporary absence of Secretary Stanton from Washington ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning William Berdine
[April 8, 1863?]
Lieut. William Berdine---a curious case, to be shown to Gov. Newell.

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Sec. of Navy Falmouth April 8. 1863
I have Richmond papers of the 7th. They contain nothing of interest to us except a despatch as follows--- ``Charleston, April 5--- Important movements are taking place here; but for military reasons no particulars can yet be telegraphed.'' And an editorial in these words. ``On yesterday morning eight Monitors and iron-clads were off the bar at Charleston. This brief, but significant telegram, which we received early in the day tells of work. The storm so long prepared for Charleston has burst at last. We await the issue with buoyant hopes but not without the solicitude due so important a struggle. May Heaven shield Charleston from all the rage of her enemies and ours.'' A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Office of U.S. Military Telegraph, War Department. Hd Qrs Army Potomac Hon Secy of Navy--- Apl 9 1863.
Richmond Whig of the 8th has no telegraphic despatches from Charleston but has the following as editorial. ``All thoughts are now centred upon Charleston. Official intelligence was made public early yesterday morning that the enemies iron clad fleet had attempted to cross the bar & failed but later in the day it was announced that the gun boats & transports had succeeded in crossing and were at anchor---our iron clads lay between the forts quietly awaiting the attacks. Further intelligence is looked for with eager anxiety. The Yankees have made no secret of their vast preparation for an attack on Charleston & we may well anticipate a desperate conflict. At last the hour of trial has come for Charleston. The hour of deliverance or destruction for no one believes the other alternative, surrender, possible. The heart of the whole country yearns towards the beleagured city with intense solications [solicitude?] yet with hopes amounting to confidence. Charleston knows what is expected of her and what is due to her fame and to the relation she sustains to the cause. The devoted, the heroic, the great hearted Beauregard is there & he too knows what is expected of him & will not disappoint that expectation. We perdict a Sarragossa defense and that if Charleston is taken it will be only a heap of ruin.'' The rebel pickets are reported as calling over to our pickets today that we had taken some rebel fort. This is not very intelligible and I think is entirely unreliable. A LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning William Kellogg
[c. April 11, 1863]
I understand my friend Kellogg is ill-natured---therefore I do not read his letter. A L

To Robert B. Mitchell
Officer in Command Executive Mansion, at Nashville, Tenn. Washington, April 11. 1863.
Is there a soldier by the name of ``John R. Minnick'' of Wynkoop's Cavalry, under sentence of death, by a Court-Martial, or Military Commission, in Nashville? and, if so, what was his offence? and when is he to be executed? A. LINCOLN If necessary let the execution be staid till I can be heared from again. A. LINCOLN

To Carl Schurz
Major General Schurz Executive Mansion, My dear Sir, Washington, April 11. 1863.
I can not comply with your request to take your Division  from the Army of the Potomac. Gen. Hooker does not wish it done. I do not myself see a good reason why it should be done. The Division will do itself, and it's officers, more honor; and the country more service, where it is. Besides these general reasons, as I understand, the Army of the Potomac will move, before these proposed changes could be conveniently made. I always wish to oblige you, but I can not in this case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I decline to interfere in behalf of Lieut. Williams April 11. 1863. A LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C., April 12, 1863.
Major-General Hooker: Your letter, by the hand of General Butterfield, is received, and will be conformed to. The thing you dispense with would have been ready by midday to-morrow. A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew G. Curtin
Hon. Andrew G. Curtin Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, April 13. 1863.
If, after the expiration of your present term as Governor of Pennsylvania, I shall continue in office here, and you shall desire to go abroad, you can do so with one of the first class missions. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Samuel F. Du Pont
Executive Mansion, Admiral Dupont Washington, April 13. 1863.
Hold your position inside the bar near Charleston; or if you shall have left it, return to it, and hold it till further orders. Do not allow the enemy to erect new batteries or defences, on Morris-Island. If he has begun it, drive him out. I do not, herein, order you to renew the general attack. That is to depend on your own discretion, or a further order. A LINCOLN

To Frederic, Grand Duke of Baden
April 13, 1863
Abraham Lincoln. President of the United States of America To His Royal Highness Frederic, Grand Duch of Baden Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Royal Highness was pleased to address to me on the 28th of February last announcing the marriage of His Grand Ducal Highness the Prince William of Baden with Her Imperial Highness the Princess Mary of Leuchtenberg. I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event and pray Your Royal Highness to accept my sincere congratulations upon the occasion together with the assurances of my highest consideration. Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington April 13. 1863 By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To Montgomery C. Meigs
April 13, 1863
I will be personally obliged, if the Quarter-Master-General can conveniently arrange to have the change made, as within requested. A. LINCOLN April 13. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, April 13, 1863
You remember my calling on you some time ago with the bearer, Mr. Asbury Waddell of Arkansas. I feel warranted to believe him a reliable man. Francis Springer who signs a letter he will show you, is one of my best friends, & than whom there is no more reliable man. Mr. Waddell says he can easily raise a regiment in his state---we need the regiment; and I therefore think you better fix him out with some authority to raise the regiment. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher
Hon. Sec. of Interior Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, April 13. 1863.
Please see Mr. Dickey a friend, and son of a friend, of mine. He is a gentleman of very high standing; and I will be glad if you will hear him patiently, and oblige him if possible. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John E. Bouligny
Executive Mansion, Hon. J. E. Bouligny Washington, April 14. 1863.
My dear Sir: I did not certainly know the object of your call yesterday, but I had a strong impression in regard to it. When our national troubles began you and I were not personally acquainted; but all I heard of you placed you, in my estimation, foremost among Louisianians, as a friend of the Union. I intended to find you a position, and I did not conceal my inclination to do so. When, last autumn, you bore a letter from me to some parties at New-Orleans, you seemed to expect, and consequently I did expect, you would return here as a member of one or the other branch of Congress. But you were not so returned; and this negative evidence, with other of like character, brings me to think that the Union people there, for some reason, prefer others for the places there [here?]. Add to this that the Head of the Department here, in which finding a place for you was contemplated, is not satisfied for the appointment to be made, and it presents, as you see an embarrassing case for me. My personal feelings for Mr. Bouligny are not less kind than heretofore. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C., April 14, 1863-5.30 p.m.
Major-General Hooker: Would like to have a letter from you as soon as convenient. A. LINCOLN.

To David Hunter and Samuel F. Du Pont
Private Executive Mansion, Washington, Gen. Hunter & Admiral Dupont April 14, 1863.
This is intended to clear up an apparent inconsistency between the recent order to continue operations before Charleston, and the former one to move to another point in a certain contingency. No censure upon you, or either of you, is intended. We still hope that by cordial and judicious co-operation, you can take the batteries on Morris Island and Sullivan's Island, and Fort-Sumpter. But whether you can or not we wish the demonstration kept up for a time, for a colatteral and very important object. We wish the attempt to be a real one, (though not a desperate one) if it affords any considerable chance of success. But if prossecuted as a demonstration only, this must not become public, or the whole effect will be lost. Once again before Charleston, do not leave till further orders from here. Of course this is not intended to force you to leave unduly exposed, Hilton Head, or other near points in your charge. Yours truly A. LINCOLN P.S. Whoever receives this first, please send a copy to the other immediately. A. L.

To William H. Seward
April 14, 1863
This petition asks me to appoint the petitioner to the ``regular mechanical department'' I know of no such Department, with which I, by law, as President, have anything to do. April 14. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase

Hon. Sec. of Treasury, please give Louis, whom you know, an audience of a few minutes. A. LINCOLN April 15, 1863

Endorsement

I have no sufficient time to hear appeals in cases of this sort. A. LINCOLN Apl. 15. 1863.

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Major General Hooker Washington, April 15. 1863
It is now 10-15.P.M. An hour ago I received your letter of this morning, and a few minutes later your despatch of this evening. The latter gives me considerable uneasiness. The rain and mud, of course, were to be calculated upon. Gen. S. is not moving rapidly enough to make the expedition come to any thing. He has now been out three days, two of which were unusually fine weather, and all three without hindrance from the enemy, and yet he is not twentyfive miles from where he started. To reach his point, he still has sixty to go; another river, the Rapidan, to cross, and will be hindered by the enemy. By arithmetic, how many days will it take him to do it? I do not know that any better can be done, but I greatly fear it is another failure already. Write me often. I am very anxious. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Resolution on Slavery
[April 15, 1863]
Whereas, while heretofore , States, and Nations, have tolerated slavery, recently , for the first in the world, an attempt has been made to construct a new Nation, upon the basis of, and with the primary, and fundamental object to maintain, enlarge, and perpetuate human slavery, therefore, Resolved, That no such embryo State should ever be recognized by, or admitted into, the family of christian and civilized nations; and that all ch[r]istian and civilized men everywhere should, by all lawful means, resist to the utmost, such recognition or admission.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I do not remember about this case. How is it? Apl. 15. 1863. A. LINCOLN

MemorandumConcerning William H. W. Horner
William H. W. Horner--- [c. April 16, 1863]
For West-Point. A very excellent recommendation. Born March 23. 1845.

Memorandum Concerning Patronage in St. Louis, Missouri
April 16, 1863
In answer to the within question ``Shall we be sustained by you?'' I have to answer that at the beginning of the administration I appointed one whom I understood to be an editor of the ``Democrat'' to be Post-Master at St. Louis  ---the best office in my gift within Missouri. Soon after this, our friends at St. Louis, must needs break into factions, the Democrat being, in my opinion, justly chargeable with a full share of the blame for it. I have stoutly tried to keep out of the quarrel, and so mean to do. As to contracts, and jobs, I understand that, by the law, they are awarded to the best bidders; and if the government agents at St. Louis do differently, it would be good ground to prossecute them upon. A. LINCOLN April 16. 1863.

Proclamation Cancelling Contract with bernard Koch
April 16, 1863
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To all to whom these presents shall come: Greeting. Know ye that, Whereas a paper bearing date the thirty first day of December, last, purporting to be an agreement between the United States and one Bernard Kock, for immigration of persons of African extraction to a dependency of the Republic of Hayti; was signed by me on behalf of the party of the first part; but whereas the said instrument was and has since remained incomplete, in consequence of the seal of the United States not having been thereunto affixed; And whereas I have been moved by considerations, by me deemed sufficient, to withhold my authority for affixing the said seal; Now, therefore, be it known, that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby authorize the Secretary of State to cancel my signature to the instrument aforesaid. [L.S.] Done at Washington, this sixteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord, 1863. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, April 16, 1863.
I understand that Major Easton, Q.M. in regular Army, and now serving at Leavenworth, Kansas, is sought to be dismissed on a charge of disloyalty. The present Governor of Kansas,  Senator Pomeroy, and U.S. Judge Williams,  (the latter of whom I have known nearly thirty years) all say he is not disloyal, but is a worthy and efficient officer. I therefore think we better not act without positive evidence. Perhaps better wait to hear from the Governor after he shall have reached home. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning D. M. Leatherman

I shall not be ready for Mr. Leatherman till 9. o'clock to-morrow morning A LINCOLN April 17. 1863.

Appointment of George Harrington
Washington April 18th. 1863
George Harrington, is hereby appointed to discharge the duties of Secretary of the Treasury, during the absence of Salmon P. Chase, the Secretary. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 18. 1863.
This man, Rosenberg, who, it seems was with Fremont & Sigel, in several battles, can get no pay in any way. Gen. Hooker testifies to have seen him doing efficient service at the 2nd. Bull-Run. A. LINCOLN [Endorsement] Submitted to the Sec. of War. A LINCOLN April 20. 1863.

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 20. 1863.
I have promised this lady to ask your attention to the application of her husband, James E. Dunawin, for a pardon---the application said to now be before you. Yours truly April 20. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Heads of Departments and Bureaus
April 20, 1863
This young man, or boy, rather, asks a Messengership; and I think, by the letters of Gov. Cannon & Hon John W. Houston, he is shown to have peculiar claim to so small a place. I will thank any Head of a Department or Bureau, who can & will find it for him. A. LINCOLN April 20. 1863.

Proclamation Admitting West Virginia into the Union
April 20, 1863
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. Whereas, by the Act of Congress approved the 31st. day of December, last, the State of West Virginia was declared to be one of the United States of America, and was admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original States in all respects whatever, upon the condition that certain changes should be duly made in the proposed Constitution for that State; And, whereas, proof of a compliance with that condition as required by the Second Section of the Act aforesaid, has been submitted to me; Now, therefore, be it known, that I Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do, hereby, in pursuance of the Act of Congress aforesaid, declare and proclaim that the said act shall take effect and be in force, from and after sixty days from the date hereof. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington, this twentieth day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-seventh. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 20, 1863
The conditions of this note being complied with by the attached letters of Senators Wilson & Nesmith, it is hereby directed that William Lilley be re-appointed a Quarter Master; and, if not inconsistent, let the appointment date with the original appointment April 20. 1863 A LINCOLN

To Calvin Truesdale
Calvin Truesdale, Esq Executive Mansion, Post-Master Washington, Rock-Island, Ills. April 20, 1863.
Thomas J. Pickett, late agent of the Quarter-Master's Department for the Island of Rock-Island, has been removed, or suspended from that position, on a charge of having sold timber and stone from the Island for his private benefit. Mr. Pickett is an old acquaintance and friend of mine; and I will thank you if you will set a day or days, and place, on & at which, to take testimony on the point; notify Mr. Pickett, and one J. B. Danforth Jr. (who, as I understand, makes the charge) to be present with their witnesses; take the testimony in writing, offered by both sides,  and report it in full to me. Please do this for me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Frederic VII
April 21, 1863
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America To His Majesty Frederic VIII [VII] King of Denmark Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 12th. ultimo, announcing the marriage of Her Royal Highness the Princess Alexandra Caroline Mary Charlotte Louisa Julia, of Denmark, with His Royal Highness Albert Edward Prince of Wales. I participate in the satisfaction which this happy event has afforded to Your Majesty, and to Your Majesty's Royal House and offer to you my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 21st April, 1863 By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State

To William H. Seward and Gideon Welles
Hon. Secretaries of Executive Mansion, State & of the Navy. Washington, April 21. 1863.
Gentlemen: It is now a practical question for this government, whether a government mail of a neutral, power, found on board a vessel captured by a beligerent power, on charge of breach of blockade, shall be forwarded to it's designated destination, without opening; or shall be placed in custody of the prize court, to be in the discretion of the court, opened and searched for evidence to be used on the trial of the prize case. I will thank each of you to furnish me First, a list of all cases wherein such question has been passed upon, either by a diplomatic, or a judicial decision. Secondly, all cases wherein mails, under such circumstances, have been without special decision, either forwarded unopened; or detained, and opened, in search of evidence. I wish these lists to embrace as well the reported cases in the books generally, as the cases pertaining to the present war in the United States. Thirdly, a statement, and brief argument, of what would be the dangers and evils, of forwarding such mails unopened. Fourthly, a statement and brief argument, of what would be the dangers and evils of detaining and opening such mails, and using the contents, if pertinent, as evidence. And lastly, any general remarks that may occur to you, or either of you. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum Concerning John G. Foster
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 22. 1863.
To-day, Gov. Stanley, calls and asks that Gen. Foster, may have his commission dated back. Gen. F.'s conduct at Washington N.C. I think, entitles him to additional consideration. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 22, 1863
The vouchers within, of Col. Bendix, by Gens. French, Couch, Butterfield, Hooker, Wool, & Butler, are ample. Whether what Col. Bendix desires, can be done, consistently with the service, I must refer to the Secretary of War. In considering the case, Gen. Hooker's late order, and also the Gov. of New-York, must be rem[em]bered, as well as general principles and regulations. April 22. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 22, 1863
Let nothing be done to the detriment of Joseph Kitchen, until the case is better understood, nor without letting me know. A. LINCOLN

To Charles Sumner
Hon. Charles Sumner Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 22, 1863.
Mrs. L. is embarrassed a little. She would be pleased to have your company again this evening, at the Opera, but she fears she may be taxing you. I have undertaken to clear up the little difficulty. If, for any reason, it will tax you, decline, without any hesitation; but if it will not, consider yourself already invited, and drop me a note. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Simon Cameron Washington City, Harrisburg, Penn. April 23. 1863
Telegraph me the name of your candidate for West-Point. A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. S. P. Chase Washington City, Philadelphia, Penn. April 23. 1863
Telegraph me the name of your candidate for West-Point. A. LINCOLN

List of Recommendations for West Point
[c. April 23, 1863]
Bishop Hughes 	 --- 	William A. Cunningham Gen. Cameron 	 --- 	John Cameron Speaker Grow 	 --- 	Henry W. Streeter. Gen. Heintzelman	--- 	Charles S. Heintzelman Gen. Sumner. 	 --- 	George Sumner Jenkins. Gen. Taylor 	 --- 	John J. D. Kingsbury. Gov. Chase 	 --- 	William H. Walbridge, Mrs. Blair 	 --- 	Charles Harrod Campbell, Senator Foote. 	 --- 	William H. Hodges, Mr. Stanton. 	 --- 	Christopher Wolcot, O.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans. Executive Mansion, Washington, Murfreesboro, Tenn. April 22 [23rd] 1863. [10:10 A.M.]
Your despatch of the 21st. received. I really can not say that I have heard any complaints of you. I have heard complaint of a Police corps at Nashville; but your name was not mentioned in connection with it so far as I remember. It may be that by inference, you are connected with it; but my attention has never been drawn to it in that light. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Segar
Executive Mansion, Hon. Joseph Segar Washington, April 23, 1863.
My dear Sir: My recollection is that Accomac and Northampton counties (Eastern Shore of Va.) were not exempted from a Proclamation issued some short while after the adjournment of Congress; that some time after the issuing of the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation, in September, and before the issuing of the final one on January 1st. 1863, you called on me and requested that ``Eastern Shore of Va'' might be exempted from both the Summer Proclamation, & the final emancipation Proclamation. I told you that the non-exemption of it from the former, was a mere omission, which would be corrected; and that it should also be exempted from the final emancipation Proclamation. The preliminary Emancipation Proclamation does not define what is included, or excluded; but only gives notice that this will be done in the final one. Both yourself and Gen. Dix, at different times, (Gen. Dix in writing) called my attention to the fact that I had omitted to exempt the ``Eastern Shore of Virginia'' from the first proclamation; and this was all that was needed to have me correct it. Without being reminded by either him or yourself, I do not think I should have omitted to exempt it from the final Emancipation Proclamation; but at all events, you did not allow me to forget it. Supposing it was your duty to your constituents to attend to these matters, I think you acted with entire good faith and fidelity to them. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 25, 1863
Gov. Johnson thinks it would be well to have the within added to his letter of instruction. If the Secretary of War sees no objection, I see none. A. LINCOLN April 25. 1863

To Benjamin B. French

Comr. of Public Buildings please see the bearer April 27. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C., April 27, 1863-3.30 p.m.
Major-General Hooker: How does it look now? A. LINCOLN.

To James H. Lane
Hon. James H. Lane Executive Mansion, Leavenworth, Kansas--- Washington, April 27. 1863.
The Governor of Kansas is here, asking that Lieut. Col. J. M. Williams, of a colored regiment there, shall be removed; and also complaining of the military interference of Gen. Blunt in the late election at Leavenworth. I do not know how, if at all, you are connected with these things; but I wish your assistance to so shape things that the Governor of Kansas may be treated with the consideration that is extended to Governors of other States. We are not forcing a Regimental officer upon any other governor, against his protest. Can not this matter be somehow adjusted? A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph G. Totten

Gen. Totten, please see Judge Mott, now Territorial Delegate for Nevada. A. LINCOLN April 27, 1863.

To Peter H. Watson
Hon. P.H. Watson Executive Mansion, Asst. Sec. of War Washington, April 27, 1863.
My dear Sir: I have attentively considered the matter of the ``Republican'' in regard to which you called on me the other day; and the result is that I prefer to make no change, unless it shall again give just cause of offence, in which case I will at once withdraw the patronage it is enjoying at my hand. I believe it will not offend again; and if not, it is better to let the past go by quietly. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Commutation of Sentence of John A. Chase
April 28, 1863.
The sentence of death in this case is commuted to imprisonment at hard labor, with ball and chain attached to his leg, during the remainder of the present war; all to be in Fort Delaware. A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew G. Curtin
Hon. A. G. Curtin Washington City, Harrisburg, Penn. April 28. 1863
I do not think the people of Pennsylvania should be uneasy about an invasion. Doubtless a small force of the enemy is flourishing about in the Northern part of Virginia on the `` Scew-horn '' principle, on purpose to divert us in another quarter. I believe it is nothing more. We think we have adequate forces close after them. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Major General Hooker Washington, April 28, 1863.
The maps, newspapers, and letter of yesterday are just received, for all which I thank you. While I am anxious, please do not suppose I am impatient, or waste a moment's thought on me, to your own hindrance, or discomfort. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Francis L. Capen's Weather Forecasts
April 28, 1863
It seems to me Mr. Capen knows nothing about the weather, in advance. He told me three days ago that it would not rain again till the 30th. of April or 1st. of May. It is raining now & has been for ten hours. I can not spare any more time to Mr. Capen. April. 28. 1863. A LINCOLN

To William A. Newell
Hon. W. A. Newell. Executive Mansion, Allentown, New-Jersey. Washington, April 29. 1863.
I have some trouble about Provost-Marshal in your first district. Please procure Hon. Mr. Starr to come with you and see me; or, come to an agreement with him, and telegraph me the result. A. LINCOLN

To David Hunter
PRIVATE Executive Mansion, Major General Hunter Washington, April 30, 1863.
My dear Sir This morning I was presented an order of yours dismissing from the service, subject to my approval, a Captain Schaadt, of one of the Pennsylvania regiments. Disloyalty, without any statement of the evidence supposed to have proved it, is assigned as the cause of the dismissal; and he represents at home, as I am told, that the sole evidence was his refusal to sanction a resolution (indorsing the emancipation proclamation I believe); and our friends assure me that this statement is doing the Union cause great harm in his neighborhood and county, especially as he is a man of character, did good service in raising troops for us last fall, and still declares for the Union & his wish to fight for it. On this state of case I wrote a special indorsement on the order, which I suppose he will present to you; and I write this merely to assure you that no censure is intended upon you; but that it is hoped that you will inquire into the case more minutely, and that if there be no evidence, but his refusal to sanction the resolution, you will restore him. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

Regarding the Case of David Schaadt
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 30, 1863.
Such facts are brought to my notice as induce me to withhold,  my approval of the dismissal of Capt. Schaadt, named within. He is satisfactorily proved to me to be of good character for candor and manliness, and generally; and that he was most active and efficient, in Pennsylvania last autumn, in raising troops for the Union. All this should not retain him in the service, if, since then, he has given himself, in any way, to the injury of the service. How this is I must understand better than I now do, before I can approve his dismissal. What has he done? What has he said? If, as is claimed for him, he is guilty of nothing, but the withho[l]ding his vote or sanction, from a certain resolution or resolutions, I think his dismissal is wrong, even though I might think the resolution itself right, and very proper to be adopted by such as choose. Capt. Schaadt will report himself to Gen. Hunter, and deliver him this paper, for his further action. A. LINCOLN

To Timothy P. Andrews
May 1, 1863
Pay Master General, please see Rev. Dr. Van Santvoord who has a question about his pay. He only asks that it commence with the date of his commission, whereas he has served ever since & long before. A. LINCOLN. May 1, 1863.

To Andrew G. Curtin
Gov. Curtin Executive Mansion, Washington, Harrisburg, Pa. May 1. 1863. [10:55 P.M.]
The whole disposable force at Baltimore & elsewhere in reach have already been sent after the enemy which alarms you. The worst thing the enemy could do for himself would be to weaken himself before Hooker, & therefore it is safe to believe he is not doing it; and the best thing he could do for himself, would be to get us so scared as to bring part of Hooker's force away, and that is just what he is trying to do. I will telegraph you in the morning about calling out the militia A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major Gen. Halleck, Executive Mansion My dear Sir Washington May 1, 1863.
Please see & confer with Gen. Totten. He thinks the public service might be advanced by Gen. Cullum going to Boston; and if you can spare him for a few days, I wish him to go. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To William A. Hammond
May 1, 1863.
The Surgeon General will oblige me, if he can consistently assign Chaplain Van Santvoord, to the Covalesent Camp for a few months. A. LINCOLN May 1. 1863.

To S. Johnson Salisbury
S. Johnson Salesbury Washington, D.C., Elgin, Illinois. May 1 1863
Yours of the 28th. ult. about Post-Master at Elgin was received; and being upon a subject to which my attention had not been called, I refered the Despatch to the Post-Master General, since which I have not heared from it A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let this appointment be made at once. A. LINCOLN May 1. 1863.

To Edward Bates
May 2, 1863
Will the Attorney General please make out the proper document remitting the remainder of the imprisonment in this case, letting the pecuniary punishment stand. A. LINCOLN May 2. 1863

To Salmon P. Chase

Sec. of Treasury, please see this lady, a moment. May 2. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew G. Curtin
Gov. Curtin Executive Mansion, Harrisburg, Pa. Washington, May 2. 1863.
Gen. Halleck tells me he has a despatch from Gen. Schenck this morning, informing him that our forces have joined, and that the enemy menacing Penn. will have to fight or run to-day. I hope I am not less anxious to do my duty to Pennsylvania, than yourself; but I really do not yet see the justification for incurring the trouble and expense of calling out the militia. I shall keep watch and try to do my duty. A. LINCOLN P.S. Our forces are exactly between the enemy and Pennsylvania. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec of State. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir, Washington. May 2. 1863.
Have we any committal as to the vacant consulate at Havanna? If we have not, I am for giving it to Hon. Caleb Lyon, and of doing it at once. Yours truly. A. LINCOLN.

To Daniel Butterfield
Washington City, Major General Butterfield. May 3. 1863.
Where is Gen. Hooker? Where is Sedgwick? where is Stoneman? A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside Executive Mansion, Cincinnati, Ohio Washington, May 4, 1863.
Our friend, Gen. Sigel claims that you owe him a letter. If you so remember, please write him at once. He is here. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C., Major-General Hooker: May 4, 1863---3.10 p.m.
We have news here that the enemy has reoccupied heights above Fredericksburg. Is that so? A. LINCOLN.

To Montgomery C. Meigs

It appearing to me that Mr. Picketts fault is more apparant than real, it is my wish that he be restored to his place. May 4, 1863. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Rufus Ingalls
May 4, 1863
1. It appears Ingalls is not with Hooker, and therefore may not be acting under his special direction. 2. He may consider it a proper precaution, in view of what he knows is going on at Fredericksburg. 3. He may not know that we know about Fredericksburg, and, to keep it from us, may say `My reasons are good' May 4. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To James B. Fry
Dear Sir: Washington May 5, 1863.
Please appoint the following Provost Marshals and members of Enrolling Boards for the State of Illinois: 1st District: Provost Marshal, 	William James 2d Dist. Provost Marshal, 	Amos B. Coon Enrolling Board 	Col. Wm Shaffer 3d Dist. Provost Marshal 	John V. Eustace. 4th Dist. Provost Marshal 	James Woodruff 5th Dist. Provost Marshal 	James M. Allen 6th Dist. Provost Marshal, 	Capt. Abel Longworth 7th Dist. Provost Marshal 	Wm Fithian Enrolling Board 	Capt. J. S. Wolf  8th Dist Provost Marshal 	Isaac Keys. Enrolling Board 	Clinton Jones  9th Dist Provost Marshal 	Benj. F. Westlake. 10th Dist Provost Marshal, 	Wm M. Fry Enrolling Board 	Hon. S. W. Moulton 11th Dist. Provost Marshal 	Hon. Mortimer O'Kean Enrolling Board 	Hon. Wm B. Archer 12th Dist. Provost Marshal 	Geo. Abbott John E. Deitrich comr. 13th Dist Provost Marshal 	Capt Wm C. Carroll.  Enrolling Board 	A. J. Kuykendall Yours Truly Col. J. B. Fry ABRAHAM LINCOLN Provost Marshal General.

To Joseph Hooker
War Department Washington City, Major General Hooker [May 6] 1863.
Are you suffering with dust this morning?

To Joseph Hooker
War Department Washington City, D.C. My dear General May 6. 9/40. AM. 1863
The great storm of yesterday and last night, has interrupted the telegraph; so that we think fit to send you Gen. Dix despatch of the contents of Richmond papers. I need not repeat the contents. We also try to get it to you by Telegraph. We have nothing from your immediate whereabouts since your short despatch to me, of the 4th. 4/20. P.M. We hear many rumors, but do not exactly know what has become of Sedgwick. We have heard no word of Stoneman, except what is in Dix's despatch about Col. Davis which looks well. It is no discourgement that you have already fought the bulk of Longstreet's force, nor that Jackson is severely wounded. And now, God bless you, and all with you. I know you will do your best. Waste no time unnecessarily, to gratify our curiosity with despatches. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN Maj. Genl. Hooker.

To Joseph Hooker
Washington City, D.C. Major General Hooker. May 6. 11/40 1863
We have, through Gen. Dix, the contents of Richmond papers of the fifth (5th) Gen. Dix's despatch in full, is going to you by Capt. Fox of the Navy. The substance is Gen. Lee's despatch of the third (3rd) Sunday claiming that he had beaten you, and that you were then retreating across the Rappahannock; distinctly stating that two of Longstreet's Divisions fought you on Saturday; and that Gen. Paxton  was killed, Stonewall Jackson severely wounded, and Generals Heth  and A. P. Hill slightly wounded. The Richmond papers also state, upon what authority, not mentioned, that our Cavalry have been at Ashland, Hanover Court-House and other points, destroying several locomotives, and a good deal of other property, and all the Railroad Bridges to within five (5.) miles of Richmond. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C. May 6, 1863--- 12.30 p.m.
General Hooker: Just as I had telegraphed you contents of Richmond papers, showing that our cavalry has not failed, I received General Butterfield's of 11 a.m. yesterday.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) This, with the great rain of yesterday and last night, securing your right flank, I think puts a new face upon your case; but you must be the judge. A. LINCOLN.

To Rufus Ingalls
Washington City, Col. Ingalls May 6. 1863 [1.45 P.M.].
News has gone to Gen. Hooker which may change his plans. Act in view of such contingency. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 6 and 8, 1863
About attaching a part of Ky, now, under Grant, to Burnside. May 6. 1863. A.L. Submitted to Sec. of War, & asking special attention. May 8. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Major General Hooker. Head-Quarters, Army of the Potomac, My dear Sir May. 7 1863.
The recent movement of your army is ended without effecting it's object, except perhaps some important breakings of the enemies communications. What next? If possible I would be very glad of another movement early enough to give us some benefit from the fact of the enemies communications being broken, but neither for this reason or any other, do I wish anything done in desperation or rashness. An early movement would also help to supersede the bad moral effect of the recent one, which is sure to be considerably injurious. Have you already in your mind a plan wholly, or partially formed? If you have, prossecute it without interference from me. If you have not, please inform me, so that I, incompetent as I may be, can try [to] assist in the formation of some plan for the Army. Yours as ever A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon Secretary of War. Head Quarters A.P. May 7, 1863.
Have you any news? and if any what is it? I expect to be up to-night. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
May 8, 1863
This resignation is accepted; and the Attorney General will please send me immediately an appointment of Joshua Tevis, to fill the vacancy. A. LINCOLN May 8. 1863.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Hon. S. P. Chase Washington, May 8. 1863.
My dear Sir. I address this to you personally, rather than officially, because of the nature of the case. My mind is made up to remove Victor Smith as Collector of the Customs at the Puget Sound District. Yet, in doing this, I do not decide that the charges against him are true. I only decide that the degree of dissatisfaction with him there is too great for him to be retained. But I believe he is your personal acquaintance & friend; and if you shall desire it, I will try to find some other place for him. Yours as ever, A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Secretary of Treasury: May 8, 1863
My dear Sir: Please send me, at once, an appointment of Henry Clay Wilson, of Washington Territory, to be collector of customs for the Puget Sound district, in place of Victor Smith. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Major General Hooker. Washington, May 8. 1863.
The news is here, of the capture, by our forces of Grand Gulf---a large & very important thing. Gen. Willich,  an exchanged prisoner, just from Richmond, has talked with me this morning. He was there when our cavalry cut the roads in that vicinity. He says there was not a sound pair legs in Richmond, and that our men, had they known it, could have safely gone in and burnt every thing & brought us Jeff. Davis. We captured and parold three or four hundred men. He says, as he came to City point, there was an army three miles long (Longstreet's he thought) moving towards Richmond. Milroy has captured a despatch of Gen. Lee, in which he says his loss was fearful, in his late battle with you.  . A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Concerning Aliens
May 8, 1863
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas the Congress of the United States, at its last Session, enacted a law, entitled ``An Act for enrolling and calling out the National Forces and for other purposes,'' which was approved on the 3d. day of March, last: and whereas it is recited in the said act that there now exist in the United States an insurrection and rebellion against the authority thereof, and it is, under the constitution of the United States, the duty of the Government to suppress insurrection and rebellion, to guaranty to each state a republican form of Government, and to preserve the public tranquillity; and whereas, for these high purposes, a military force is indispensable, to raise and support which all persons ought willingly to contribute; and whereas no service can be more praiseworthy and honorable than that which is rendered for the maintenance of the Constitution and Union, and the consequent preservation of free government: and whereas, for the reasons thus recited, it was enacted by the said statute that all able bodied male citizens of the United States, and persons of foreign birth who shall have declared on oath their intention to become citizens under and in pursuance of the laws thereof, between the ages of twenty and forty-five years, (with certain exceptions not necessary to be here mentioned,) are declared to constitute the national forces, and shall be liable to perform military duty in the service of the United States when called out by the President for that purpose: And whereas it is claimed by and in behalf of persons of foreign birth, within the ages specified in said act, who have heretofore declared on oath their intentions to become citizens under, and in pursuance of, the laws of the United States, and who have not exercised the right of suffrage or any other political franchise under the laws of the United States, or of any of the States thereof, that they are not absolutely concluded by their aforesaid declaration of intention from renouncing their purpose to become citizens, and that, on the contrary, such persons, under treaties or the law of nations, retain a right to renounce that purpose, and to forego the privileges of citizenship and residence within the United States, under the obligations imposed by the aforesaid Act of Congress:--- Now, therefore, to avoid all misapprehensions concerning the liability of persons concerned to perform the service required by such enactment, and to give it full effect, I do hereby order and proclaim that no plea of alienage will be received or allowed to exempt from the obligations imposed by the aforesaid Act of Congress, any person of foreign birth who shall have declared on oath his intention to become a citizen of the United States under the laws thereof, and who shall be found within the United States at any time during the continuance of the present insurrection and rebellion, at or after the expiration of the period of sixty-five days from the date of this proclamation; nor shall any such plea of alienage be allowed in favor of any such person who has so, as aforesaid, declared his intention to become a citizen of the United States, and shall have exercised, at any time, the right of suffrage, or any other political franchise, within the United States under the laws thereof, or under the laws of any of the several States. In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington, this eighth day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-seventh. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Charles W. Rand
May 8, 1863
To C. W. Rand, Esq., Marshal of the United States for the Northern District of California: Whereas, it has come to my knowledge that one Andres Castillero, and divers persons acting or claiming to act under him as his agents or assigns, have, under and by virtue of a pretended grant or grants from the lawfully constituted authorities of the Republic of Mexico, occupied and taken possession of, and made settlement on a portion of the public lands of the United States situate in the Country of Santa Clara and State of California, commonly called and known as the New Almaden Quicksilver mining property, and embracing about three thousand varas of land in all directions from the mouth of the mine commonly called and known as the New Almaden Quicksilver Mine, and have, for a long time past, by extracting valuable minerals therefrom and converting the same to their own use; by erecting buildings and other improvements thereon, and by other unauthorized acts, used and enjoyed the said portion of the public lands as if they were the lawful owners thereof, all of which acts have been without the consent, and against the rights of the United States: And whereas, by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of Andres Castillero against the United States, at the December Term of the said Court last past, it has been adjudged that the grant or grants from the lawfully constituted authorities of the Republic of Mexico, under which the said Andres Castillero and the persons claiming under him as agents or assigns, have claimed and pretended to hold the said described portion of the public lands, is or are fraudulent and void, and conferred no right whatever to the said described portion of the public lands or to the minerals therein, whereby it appears that the said Andres Castillero and the persons claiming under him as agents or assigns, now in possession of the said described premises, are intruders thereon without right: And whereas, the said described portion of the public lands has never been surveyed and opened to settlement and sale under the laws of the United States: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, by virtue of the power and authority in me vested by the Act approved the 3d day of March, A.D. 1807, Chap. 46, entitled ``An Act to prevent settlements being made on lands ceded to the United States until authorized by law,'' do hereby order and direct you to enter upon that portion of the public lands situate in Santa Clara County, in the State of California, commonly called and known as the New Almaden mining property, embracing about three thousand varas of land in all directions from the mouth of the mine commonly called and known as the New Almaden Quicksilver Mine, and to remove therefrom any and every person or persons who shall be found on the same, and deliver the said premises, with all the appurtenances of whatsoever kind to the possession of Leonard Swett, an agent who has been duly authorized by me to take possession of and hold the same for the United States, and also that you take such measures and call to your assistance such military force of the United States in California as may be necessary to execute this order. In witness whereof, I have hereunto affixed my hand, this eighth day of May, A.D. 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Peter H. Watson
May 8, 1863
Will Mr. Watson please act upon this case as soon as possible.

To Hiram Barney
Hon. Hiram Barney Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, May 9. 1863.
This introduces Gov. Wright, of Indiana, whose name, if not his person, you certainly know. He is trying to raise a little money, not for himself, but to carry some articles to the World's Fair at Hamburg. I shall be glad if, by your acquaintance with the rich men, you can render him some assistance. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
May 9, 1863
In speaking of the discretion which the District Attorney might use, I alluded to such discretion as is conferred by the law; and I certainly did not mean to say, I would undertake to confer an enlarged discretion upon him. A. LINCOLN May 9. 1863.

To John A. Dix
Washington City, May 9. 1863
Major General Dix It is very important for Hooker to know exactly what damage is done to the Railroads, at all points between Fredericksburg and Richmond. As yet we have no word as to whether the crossings of the North and South Ana, or any of them, have been touched. There are four of these crossings, that is, one on each road on each stream. You readily perceive why this information is desired. I suppose Kilpatrick or Davis  can tell. Please ascertain fully what was done, & what is the present condition, as near as you can, and advise me at once. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir--- Washington, May 9. 1863.
I wish you would make out the appointment of Lilley at once. He has my word in writing, and I can not afford to break it. I appreciate your opposition to him; but you can better afford to let him be appointed, than I can afford to break my word with him. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, May 9. 1863.
Please inform me on what ground Dr. Worster of this City has been arrested. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher
Executive Mansion, May 9, 1863.
The Secretary of the Interior will send me a temporary commission for the within named Alfred R. Elder, as Indian Agent at Olympia, Washington Territory. A. LINCOLN

To Peter H. Watson

Mr. Watson, Assistant Secretary of War, please see the bearer, who is the man of whom I spoke in reference to a diving invention. May 9, 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To Daniel Butterfield
War Department, Washington City, Major General Butterfield: May 11, 1863.
About what distance is it from the Observatory, we stopped at last Thursday to the line of enemys works you ranged the glass upon for me? A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Secretary of Treasury: May 11, 1863
My dear Sir: I have just learned that Henry C. Wilson, whom I had appointed as the successor of Victor Smith, at Puget Sound, is dead. Please send me a commission for Frederick A. Wilson. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To John A. Dix
Washington City, Major General Dix. May 11. 1863
Do the Richmond papers have anything about Grand Gulf or Vicksburg? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion. Dear Sir: Washington. May 11th. 1863.
I have again concluded to relieve Genl Curtis. I see no other way to avoid the worst consequences there. I think of Gen. Schofield for his successor; but I do not wish to take the matter of a successor out of the hands of yourself and Genl Halleck. Yours truly. A. LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, May 12. 1863.
Please get me up a pardon similar to the one we gave to the son of Gen. Sterling Price, for John Orcutt Carpenter, of Kentucky. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Sentence commuted to suspension of two months rank and pay proper, to commence March 30th. 1863 A. LINCOLN May 12, 1863.

To Horatio Seymour
Gov. Seymour Executive Mansion, Albany, N. Y. Washington, May 12. 
Dr. Swinburne and Mr. Gillett are here having been refused, as they say, by the War Department, permission to go to the Army of the Potomac. They now appeal to me, saying you wish them to go. I suppose they have been excluded by a rule which experience has induced the Department to deem proper; still they shall have leave to go, if you say you desire it. Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 12, 1863
Sec. of War, please see Mr. Dole & others about the first colored regiment. Please do the best for them you can. . . .

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 12, 1863
The within is presented with a very praiseworthy object, and is submitted to the War Department, asking the best attention that can be consistently given to it. A. LINCOLN May 12. 1863.

To Gideon Welles

Hon. Sec. of Navy, please see & hear Hon. Mr. Casey. May 12. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Pedro Diez Canseco
May 13, 1863
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, To His Excellency Senor Don Pedro Diez Canseco, Second Vice President of the Republic of Peru, charged with Executive Power. Sir: I have been deeply touched by the announcement, contained in the letter which you addressed to me under date of the eleventh ultimo, of the decease of the Most Excellent President of the Republic of Peru, the Grand Marshal, Don Miguel San Roman. Regarding the interests of the Spanish American Republics with no common concern, I have not failed to observe the incidents of the brief administration of the Grand Marshal, Senor San Roman, with admiration and respect, and to anticipate for the Republic a most prosperous and brilliant future in the developmement [ sic ] of his wise and sagacious policy. I offer to your Excellency and to the Peruvian Nation my sincere sympathy and condolence in this painful event. As your Excellency has entered upon the duties of the Presidency, ad interim, under Constitutional sanction, prescribing to yourself such a course as must invite the approval and cooperation of other Powers, I cannot but believe that the Supreme Ruler of the Universe will guide the counsels of Your Excellency to a happy issue. And so commending you to His safe and Holy Keeping. I remain, Your Excellency's Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. Washington, May 13, 1863.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Secretary of the Treasury: May 13, 1863.
My dear Sir: I return the letters of General Garfield and Mr. Flanders. I am sorry to know the general's pet expedition under Colonel Streight, has already been captured. Whether it had paid for itself, as he hoped, I do not know. If you think it proper to fill the agency mentioned by Mr. Flanders, by all means let Mr. F. be the man.  Please send me over the commission for Lewis C. Gunn, as you recommend, for collector of customs at Puget Sound .  Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
May 13, 1863
I understand there are, or have been, some charges against Lieutenant Merryman, of which I know nothing. I only wish to say, he was raised from childhood in the town where I lived, and I remember nothing against him as boy or man. His father, now dead, was a very intimate acquaintance and friend of mine. A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase

Hon. Sec. of Treasury: Please see Capt. Martin, well vouched as a good man who seeks a position in the Marine Revenue service May. 13. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To John W. Forney
Col. Forney Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, May 13. 1863.
I wish to lose no time in thanking you for the excellent and manly article in the Chronicle on ``Stonewall Jackson'' Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Anson G. Henry
Dr. A. G. Henry Executive Mansion, Washington, Metropolitan Hotel New-York. May 13. 1863.
Governor Chase's feelings were hurt by my action in his absence. Smith is removed, but Gov. Chase wishes to name his successor, and asks a day or two to make the designation. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C., May 13, 1863- 1 p.m.
Major-General Hooker: If it will not interfere with the service, nor personally incommode you, please come up and see me this evening. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Secretary of War May 13, 1863.
My dear Sir Since parting with you I have seen the Secretaries of State and the Treasury, and they both think we better not issue the special suspension of the Writ of Habeas Corpus spoken of. Gov. Chase thinks the case is not before Judge Swaine,  that it is before Judge Levett, that the writ will probably not issue, whichever the application may be before; and that, in no event, will Swaine commit an imprudence. His chief reason for thinking the writ will not issue, is that he has seen in a newspaper that Judge Levett  stated that Judge Swaine & he refused a similar application last year. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War please see Mr. Diggs. A. LINCOLN May 13. 1863.

To Joseph G. Totten
Gen. Totten Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, May 13, 1863.
I wish to appoint William Whipple, son of the General who fell in the recent battle on the Rappahannock, to West-Point, next Spring, and I wish to file this with you as a remembrance upon the subject. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William C. Bryant
Executive Mansion, Mr. W. C. Bryant. Washington, May 14, 1863.
My dear Sir Yours requesting that Gen. Sigel may be again assigned to command, is received. Allow me to briefly explain. I kept Gen. Sigel in command for several months, he requesting to resign, or to be relieved. At length, at his urgent & repeated solicitation, he was relieved. Now it is inconvenient to assign him a command without relieving or dismissing some other officer, who is not asking, and perhaps would object, to being so disposed of. This is one of a class of cases; and you perceive how embarrassing they are. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Hooker May 14. 1863.
My dear Sir: When I wrote you on the 7th. I had an impression that possibly, by an early movement, you could get some advantage from the supposed facts that the enemies communications were disturbed and that he was somewhat deranged in position. That idea has now passed away, the enemy having re-established his communications, regained his positions and actually received re-inforcements. It does not now appear probable to me that you can gain any thing by an early renewal of the attempt to cross the Rappahannock. I therefore shall not complain, if you do no more, for a time, than to keep the enemy at bay, and out of other mischief, by menaces and occasional cavalry raids, if practicable; and to put your own army in good condition again. Still, if in your own clear judgment, you can renew the attack successfully, I do not mean to restrain you. Bearing upon this last point, I must tell you I have some painful intimations that some of your corps and Division Commanders are not giving you their entire confidence. This would be ruinous, if true; and you should therefore, first of all, ascertain the real facts beyond all possibility of doubt. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Henry T. Blow, Charles D. Drake and Others
Hon. H. T. Blow Executive Mansion, C. D. Drake & others Washington, St. Louis, Mo May 15, 1863. [9 P.M.]
Your despatch of to-day is just received. It is very painful to me that you in Missouri can not, or will not, settle your factional quarrel among yourselves. I have been tormented with it beyond endurance for months, by both sides. Neither side pays the least respect to my appeals to your reason. I am now compelled to take hold of the case. A. LINCOLN

To James Guthrie
Hon. James Guthrie Washington City, Louisville, Ky. May 16 1863 [8:35 P.M.]
Your despatch of to-day is received. I personally know nothing of Col. Churchill; but months ago;  and more than once, he has been represented to me as exerting a mischievous influence at St. Louis, for which reason I am unwilling to force his continuance there against the judgment of our friends on the ground. But if it will oblige you, he may come to, and remain at Louisville, upon taking the oath of allegiance, and your pledge for his good behavior. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. War Department My dear Sir. Washington City, May 16. 1863
The commander of the Department at St. Louis, has ordered several persons South of our military lines, which order is not disapproved by me. Yet, at the special request of Hon. James Guthrie, I have consented to one of the number, Samuel Churchill, remaining at Louisville, Ky, upon condition of his taking the oath of allegiance, and Mr. Guthrie's word of honor for his good behavior. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion May 16th. 1863
The Secretary of War will please instruct Major General Burnside to parole Major Clarence Prentice now a rebel prisoner in Camp Chase, Ohio, to remain outside the limits of both the loyal and disloyal States, or so-called ``Confederate States,'' of the United States of America, during the present rebellion, and to abstain from in any wise aiding or abetting said rebellion. A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine, and report upon, this case. May 17. 1863. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Ernest L. Kinney
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 17, 1863.
Ernest L. Kinney seeks the appointment of a 2nd. Lieutenant in the Regular Army. He has been five years at Churchill's Military School---not West-Point. He is a Lieutenant in the 54th. N.Y. Vols, and was assigned to Gen. Tyler's Staff last December, in which service he has continued till now, & still is. His regiment is about being disbanded by consolidation, & he fears being thrown out of service thereby. For this reason he seeks the appointment. He is a family relation of Senator Dixon of Connecticut.

Memorandum:Appointment of Thomas J. Bishop
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 18. 1863.
Hon. John S. Phelps recommends Thomas J. Bishop, to be P. Marshal, in the now, 4th. Springfield District Mo. He fought at Springfield last winter & is a good man.

To Edwin M. Stanton
PRIVATE Hon. Secretary of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, May 18. 1863.
You will greatly oblige me, because it will be a matter of personal relief to me, if you will allow Hanscom's (the Republican's) accounts to be settled and paid. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
[c. May 18, 1863]
Secretary of War please see Mr. Gibbs, with this letter from Gov. Andrew. A. LINCOLN.

To Queen Victoria
May 18, 1863
Abraham Lincoln President of the United States of America To Her Majesty Victoria Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. &c &c. &c. Sendeth Greeting: Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty addressed to me on the 31st. day of March last, announcing the pleasing intelligence of the Marriage on the 10th. of that month of Your Majesty's dearly beloved son His Royal Highness Albert Edward Prince of Wales, Duke of Saxony, Prince of SaxeCoburg and Gotha &c. &c. with Her Royal Highness the Princess Alexandra Caroline Maria Charlotte Louisa Julia, eldest Daughter of His Royal Highness the Prince Christian of Denmark. Feeling a lively interest in whatever concerns the Welfare and happiness of Your Majesty's illustrious House, I pray Your Majesty to receive my cordial congratulations on this auspicious event, and my fervent Wishes that it may signally promote your own happiness and that of the Prince your son and his young spouse: And so I recommend Your Majesty and Your Majesty's Royal Family to the protection of the Almighty. Written at Washington, the 18th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To Joseph Holt
May 19, 1863
Judge Advocate General, please examine and report upon this case. The young man is nephew of Ex. President Fillmore, who writes the within letter A. LINCOLN May 19, 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 19, 1863
Sec. of War, please make up an order & send to Mr. Guthrie according to the despatches pro & con, in the case of Samuel B. Churchill. A. LINCOLN May 19, 1863.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General, please send me commissions according to the within. A. LINCOLN May 20, 1863

To Edwin D. Morgan
Hon. E.D. Morgan Washington, D.C., New-York May 20 1863
I presume the Commission of Hiatt has already gone forward, as the Sec. of the Treasury told me day-before yesterday he would send it forward. I wish the first time it is convenient you would call on me, as I feel sure I can give you some views in regard to this case which you do not think of A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Executive Mansion, Washington, Nashville, Tenn. May 20, 1863. [9:50 A.M.]
Yours of yesterday in relation to Col. Haggard is received. I am anxious that you shall not misunderstand me. In no case have I intended to censure you, or to question your ability. In Col. Haggard's case I meant no more than to suggest that possibly you might have been mistaken, in a point that could be corrected. I frequently make mistakes myself, in the many things I am compelled to do hastily. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside Washington City, Cincinnati, Ohio, May 21. 1863.
In the case of Thomas M. Campbell, convicted as a Spy, let execution of the sentence be respited until further order from me, he remaining in custody meanwhile. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Washington City, Murfreesboro, Tenn. May 21. 1863 [4:45 P.M.]
For certain reasons it is thought best for Rev. Dr. Jaques not to come here. Present my respects to him, and ask him to write me fully on the subject he has in contemplation. A. LINCOLN

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
Major General Hurlbut Washington, D.C., Memphis Tenn. May 22. 1863
We have news here in the Richmond newspapers of 20th. & 21st. including a despatch from Gen. Joe Johnson himself, that on 15th. or 16th. (a little confusion as to the day) Grant beat Pemberton & Loring  near Edwards' Station, at the end of a nine hours fight, driving Pemberton over the Big Black & cutting Loring off, & driving him South to Chrystal-Springs 25 miles below Jackson. Joe Johnson telegraphed all this, except about Loring, from his camp between Brownsville & Lexington, on the 18th. Another despatch indicates that Grant was moving against Johnson on the 18th. A. LINCOLN

Remarks to ``The One-Legged Brigade''
May 22, 1863
The President complimented the Chaplain, and said there was no need of a speech from him, as the men upon their crutches were orators; their very appearance spoke louder than tongues. As their Chaplain had alluded to the work he was at present very busy about, viz. in cleaning the devil out of Washington, the President hoped that when we could present that famous adversary at the White House on his stumps, and therefore somewhat incapable of further rebellion against constituted and divine authority, that we would let him know. Whereupon the Chaplain informed the President that he would send him word when the funeral of that arch rebel and great secessionist was to take place.

To Joseph Holt
Judge Advocate General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, May 23. 1863.
Please send me, (if you have it) the record of the trial & conviction as a Spy, of William B. Compton, now in custody at Fort. Mc.Henry. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, May 23. 1863.
In order to construct the Illinois Central Railroad, a large grant of land was made by the United States to the State of Illinois, which land was again given to the Railroad Company by the State, in certain provisions of the Charter. By the U.S. grant, certain previleges were attempted to be secured from the contemplated Railroad to the U.S., and by the charter certain per centage of the income of the road was to be from time to time paid to the State of Illinois. At the beginning of the present war the Railroad did certain carrying for the U.S. for which it claims pay; and, as I understand, the U.S. claims that at least part of this the road was bound to do without pay. Though attempts have been made to settle the matter, it remains unsettled; meanwhile the Road refuses to pay the per-centage to the State. This delay is working badly; and I understand the delay exists because of there being no definite decision whether the U.S. will settle it's own account with the Railroad, or will allow the State to settle it, & account to the State for it. If I had the leisure which I have not, I believe I could settle it; but prima facie it appears to me we better settle the account ourselves, because that will save us all question as to whether the State deals fairly with us in the settlement of our account with a third party---the R.R. I wish you would see Mr. Butler, late our State Treasurer, and see if something definite can not be done in the case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 23, 1863
There is a mistake somewhere in this case. By the accompanying copy of Gov. Curtin's letter, with my indorsement on it, it is seen that I removed the disability of Lt. Colonel Witherell, for the express purpose of allowing him to be appointed Lieut. Col. of the 82nd. Regt. & not, as the writer of this assumes, to allow him to be appointed to any regiment, other than the 82nd. Will the Sec. of War please have the matter corrected? or explain to me wherein the hitch is? A. LINCOLN May 23. 1863.

To Anson Stager
Anson Stager Washington, D.C., Cleveland, O. May 24 1863 [10:40 P.M.]
Late last night Fuller telegraphed you, as you say, that ``the stars and stripes float over Vicksburg, and the victory is complete'' Did he know what he said, or did he say it without knowing it? Your despatch of this afternoon throws doubt upon it. A. LINCOLN

To David R. Haggard
Col. Haggard Executive Mansion, Nashville. Tenn. Washington, May 25. 1863.
Your despatch to Green Adams has just been shown me. Gen. Rosecrans knows better than we can know here, who should be in charge of the (5th.) Fifth Cavalry. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Judge Advocate General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, May 25. 1863.
Please send me the record, if you have it, of the conviction of John R. Syles, of Ky, as a Spy. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Richard Yates
May 25, 1863
If the Governor of Illinois, in his discretion, see fit to reappoint Lieut. Gray to the place he was dismissed from, if it is still vacant, or to appoint him to any other Military Office, the disability now resting upon him to be so appointed, is hereby removed. May 25, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Isaac N. Arnold
Private & confidential Hon. I. N. Arnold. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, May 26. 1863.
Your letter advising me to dismiss Gen. Halleck is received. If the public believe, as you say, that he has driven Fremont, Butler, and Sigel from the service, they believe what I know to be false; so that if I were to yield to it, it would only be to be instantly beset by some other demand based on another falsehood equally gross. You know yourself that Fremont was relieved at his own request, before Halleck could have had any thing to do with it--- went out near the end of June, while Halleck only came in near the end of July. I know equally well that no wish of Halleck's had any thing to do with the removal of Butler or Sigel. Sigel, like Fremont, was relieved at his own request, pressed upon me almost constantly for six months, and upon complaints that could have been made as justly by almost any corps commander in the army, and more justly by some. So much for the way they got out. Now a word as to their not getting back. In the early Spring, Gen. Fremont sought active service again; and, as it seemed to me, sought it in a very good, and reasonable spirit. But he holds the highest rank in the Army, except McClellan, so that I could not well offer him a subordinate command. Was I to displace Hooker, or Hunter, or Rosecrans, or Grant, or Banks? If not, what was I to do? And similar to this, is the case of both the others. One month after Gen. Butler's return, I offered him a position in which I thought and still think, he could have done himself the highest credit, and the country the greatest service, but he declined it.  When Gen. Sigel was relieved, at his own request as I have said, of course I had to put another in command of his corps. Can I instantly thrust that other out to put him in again? And now my good friend, let me turn your eyes upon another point. Whether Gen. Grant shall or shall not consummate the capture of Vicksburg, his campaign from the beginning of this month up to the twenty second day of it, is one of the most brilliant in the world. His corps commanders, & Division commanders, in part, are McClernand, McPherson,  Sherman, Steele, Hovey,  Blair, & Logan. And yet taking Gen. Grant & these seven of his generals, and you can scarcely name one of them that has not been constantly denounced and opposed by the same men who are now so anxious to get Halleck out, and Fremont & Butler & Sigel in. I believe no one of them went through the Senate easily, and certainly one failed to get through at all.  I am compelled to take a more impartial and unprejudiced view of things. Without claiming to be your superior, which I do not, my position enables me to understand my duty in all these matters better than you possibly can, and I hope you do not yet doubt my integrity. Your friend, as ever A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside Washington, D.C., Cincinnati, O. May 26. 1863
Your despatch about Campbell, Lyle & others received & postponement ordered by you, approved. I will consider & telegraph you again in a few days. A. LINCOLN

To William T. Otto
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 26, 1863.
The Acting Secretary of the Interior will transmit to me a protempore commission for the appointment of Levi Bashford, of Wisconsin, to be Surveyor General of the U.S. for the Territory of Arizona. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let Isaac N. Phil[l]ips be appointed in place of William C. Carroll. A. LINCOLN May 26. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Submitted to the Secretary of War, for his edification & consolation. A. LINCOLN May 26. 1863.

To William A. Buckingham
Gov. Buckingham Executive Mansion, Washington, Hartford, Conn. May 27. 1863. [2:50 P.M.]
The execution of Warren Whitmarch is hereby respited or suspended, until further order from me, he to be held in safe custody meanwhile. On receiving this, notify me. A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, May 27, 1863.
My dear Sir: The office of second comptroller is vacant by the death of Mr. Cutts. Of course I wish your concurrence whenever I shall fill it. I believe the only applicants---whose papers are now before me---are Augustin Chester, late of Connecticut, now of Chicago, and John M. Broadhead, of this city. I herewith inclose their papers to you. I believe they are both competent and worthy gentlemen. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, May 27, 1863-11 p.m.
Major-General Hooker: Have you Richmond papers of this morning? If so, what news? A. LINCOLN.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans. Washington City, Murfreesboro, Tenn. May 27. 1863.
Have you any thing from Grant? Where is Forrest's Head-Quarters? A. LINCOLN

To Robert C. Schenck
Major General Schenck Executive Mansion, Baltimore, Md. Washington, May 27, 1863.
Let the execution of William B. Compton be respited or suspended till further order from me, holding him in safe custody meanwhile. On receiving this, notify me. A. LINCOLN.

To John M. Schofield
Executive Mansion, Gen. J. M. Schofield Washington, May 27. 1863.
My dear Sir: Having relieved Gen. Curtis and assigned you to the command of the Department of the Missouri---I think it may be of some advantage for me to state to you why I did it. I did not relieve Gen. Curtis because of any full conviction that he had done wrong by commission or omission. I did it because of a conviction in my mind that the Union men of Missouri, constituting, when united, a vast majority of the whole people, have entered into a pestilent factional quarrel among themselves, Gen. Curtis, perhaps not of choice, being the head of one faction, and Gov. Gamble that of the other. After months of labor to reconcile the difficulty, it seemed to grow worse and worse until I felt it my duty to break it up some how; and as I could not remove Gov. Gamble, I had to remove Gen. Curtis. Now that you are in the position, I wish you to undo nothing merely because Gen. Curtis or Gov. Gamble did it; but to exercise your own judgment, and do right for the public interest. Let your military measures be strong enough to repel the invader and keep the peace, and not so strong as to unnecessarily harrass and persecute the people. It is a difficult role , and so much greater will be the honor if you perform it well. If both factions, or neither, shall abuse you, you will probably be about right. Beware of being assailed by one, and praised by the other. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 27, 1863
Submitted to the Secretary of War, with the remark that while very probably Col. Woodroof is a very good man, I do not remember the matter he alludes to, or any promise of mine to him. May 27. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I would be glad for Dr. Stipp to have the transfer within requested by Judge Davis. A. LINCOLN May 27, 1863

To Erastus Corning
Hon. Erastus Corning Executive Mansion, Albany, N.Y. Washington, May 28. 1863.
The letter of yourself & others dated the 19th. and inclosing the resolutions of a public meeting held at Albany on the 16th. was received night before last. I shall give the resolutions the consideration you ask, and shall try to find time, and make a respectful response. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum: Appointment of Lawrence Kip
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 28, 1863.
To-day Senator McDougal asks that 1st. Lieut. Lawrence Kip, now on Gen. Wool's Staff, may be a Brigadier General. The Senator makes this a personal request---almost---and I wish to oblige him.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Washington D.C. Murfreesboro, Tenn. May 28. 1863
I would not push you to any rashness; but I am very anxious that you do your utmost, short of rashness, to keep Bragg from getting off to help Johnston against Grant. A. LINCOLN.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, May 28. 1863.
I have but a slight personal acquaintance with Col. Jaquess, though I know him very well by character. Such a mission as he proposes I think promises good, if it were free from difficulties, which I fear it can not be. First, he can not go with any government authority whatever. This is absolute and imperative. Secondly, if he goes without authority, he takes a great deal of personal risk---he may be condemned, and executed as a spy. If, for any reason, you think fit to give Col. Jaquess a Furlough, and any authority from me, for that object, is necessary, you hereby have it for any length of time you see fit. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please see Mr. Garrison, about Mo. Railroad. May 28. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
`` Cypher '' Major General Burnside--- Washington, D.C. Cincinnati, O. May 29. 1863
Your despatch of to-day received. When I shall wish to supersede you I will let you know. All the cabinet regretted the necessity of arresting, for instance, Vallandigham, some perhaps, doubting, that there was a real necessity for it---but, being done, all were for seeing you through with it. A. LINCOLN

To Jesse K. Dubois and Others
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 29. 1863.
Messrs Jesse K. Dubois O. M. Hatch 	Charles W. Matheny John Williams 	William F. Elkin Jacob Bunn 	Francis Springer John Bunn 	B. A. Watson George R. Weber. 	Eliphalet Hawley & William Yates 	James Campbell. S. M. Cullom. Gentlemen Agree among yourselves upon any two of your own number, one of whom to be Quarter-Master, and the other to be Commissary, to serve at Springfield, Illinois, and send me their names, and I will appoint them. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Governor Andrew Johnson Washington, D.C. Louisville, Ky. May 29. 1863.
Gen. Burnside has been frequently informed lately that the Division under Gen. Getty can not be spared. I am sorry to have to tell you this, but [it] is true, and can not be helped. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton and Henry W. Halleck
Hon. Sec. of War. & Executive Mansion, Genl. in-Chief. Washington, May 29. 1863.
I concur with Gov. Curtin and Gen. Schenck that an increased Cavalry force upon & South of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, is very desirable. Please see them, and if you can devise an eligible mode of getting such force, let it be done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Remarks to New York Committee
May 30, 1863
The President declared that he would gladly receive into the service not ten thousand but ten times ten thousand colored troops; expressed his determination to protect all who enlisted, and said that he looked to them for essential service in finishing the war. He believed that the command of them afforded scope for the highest ambition, and he would with all his heart offer it to Gen. Fremont.

To Robert C. Schenck
Private Major Gen. Schenck Executive Mansion, Baltimore, Md. Washington, May 31, 1863.
I have been requested to say, what I very truly can, that I esteem Gov. Francis Thomas, as an able, and very true man. I do not know that he agrees with me in everything---perhaps he does not; but he has given me evidence of sincere friendship, & as I think, of patriotism. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Form Draft Order
[June, 1863]
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C.,---, 1863. I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America and Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy thereof, having taken into consideration the number of volunteers and militia furnished by and from the several States, including the State of --- and the period of service of said volunteers and militia since the commencement of the present rebellion, in order to equalize the numbers among the districts of the said States, and having considered and allowed for the number already furnished as aforesaid, and the time of their services aforesaid, do hereby assign --- as the first proportional part of the quota of troops to be furnished by the --- district of the State of ---, under this, the first call made by me on the State of ---, under the act approved March 3, 1863, entitled, ``An act for enrolling and calling out the national forces, and for other purposes,'' and, in pursuance of the act aforesaid, I order that a draft be made in the said --- district of the State of ---, for the number of men herein assigned to said district, and 50 per cent. in addition. In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. Done at the city of Washington this --- day of ---, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-eighth.

To Edward Bates
June 1, 1863
As the Judge, Jury, Marshal, District Attorney & Post-Master General, join in asking a pardon in this case, I have concluded to grant it. The Attorney General will please make it out & send it to me. A. LINCOLN June 1. 1863.

To Joseph Holt
June 1, 1863
It appears that Martin Davis, of Co. G. 85th. N.Y. Vols. has been convicted of something, as he is applying to me for a pardon. Will the Judge Advocate General please send me the record? June 1. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

I can not interfere in this case. A. LINCOLN June 1. 1863

To William H. Ludlow
`` Cypher '' Col. Ludlow Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe. Washington, June 1. 1863.
Richardson & Browne, correspondents of the Tribune, captured at Vicksburg, are detained at Richmond. Please ascertain why they are detained, & get them off if you can. A. LINCOLN

To William T. Otto
June 1, 1863
I must repeat now in writing what I have told Mr. Kelly verbally, that the courts and not the President, must decide questions of land titles. There may be some questions in regard to pre-emptions, which by law, are to be decided through the Department, with appeal to me, and when such a case shall come regularly to me, I shall hear it. But I must now say, once for all, that mere vague assertions that the decisions of the Courts are fraudulent, with appeals to me to reverse them, can [not] be entertained. June 1, 1863 A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War please inform me what there is of this case. June 1. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Charles Sumner
Hon. Charles Sumner Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, June 1. 1863.
In relation to the matter spoken of Saturday morning, and this morning, towit, the raising of colored troops in the North, with the understanding that they shall be commanded by Gen. Fremont, I have to say That while it is very objectionable, as a general rule, to have troops raised on any special terms, such as to serve only under a particular commander, or only at a particular place or places, yet I would forego the objection in this case, upon a fair prospect that a large force of this sort could thereby be the more rapidly raised That being raised, say to the number of ten thousand, I would very cheerfully send them to the field under Gen. Fremont, assigning him a Department, made or to be made, with such white force also as I might be able to put in. That with the best wishes towards Gen. Fremont, I can not now give him a Department, because I have not spare troops to furnish a new Department; and I have not, as I think, justifiable ground to relieve the present commander of any old one. In the raising of the colored troops, the same consent of Governors would have to be obtained as in case of white troops, and the government would make the same provision for them during organization, as for white troops. It would not be a point with me whether Gen. Fremont should take charge of the organization, or take charge of the force only after the organization. If you think fit to communicate this to Gen. Fremont you are at liberty to do so. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Major Gen. Grant Washington, D.C., Vicksburg, via Memphis. June 2. 1863
Are you in communication with Gen. Banks? Is he coming towards you, or going further off? Is there, or has there been anything to hinder his coming directly to you by water from Alexandria? A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Major General Hooker: Washington, June 2, 1863.
It is said that Philip Margraff, in your army, is under sentence to be shot on Friday, the 5th instant, as a deserter. If this be so, please send me up the record of his case at once. A. LINCOLN.

Reply to Members of the Presbyterian General Assembly
June 2, 1863
It has been my happiness to receive testimonies of a similar nature, from I believe, all denominations of Christians. They are all loyal, but perhaps not in the same degree, or in the same numbers; but I think they all claim to be loyal. This to me is most gratifying, because from the beginning I saw that the issues of our great struggle depended on the Divine interposition and favor. If we had that, all would be well. The proportions of this rebellion were not for a long time understood. I saw that it involved the greatest difficulties, and would call forth all the powers of the whole country. The end is not yet. The point made in your paper is well taken as to ``the Government'' and the ``administration'' in whose hands are those interests. I fully appreciate its correctness and justice. In my administration I might have committed some errors. It would be, indeed, remarkable if I had not. I have acted according to my best judgment in every case. The views expressed by the Committee accord with my own; and on this principle ``the Government'' is to be supported though the administration may not in every case wisely act. As a pilot, I have used my best exertions to keep afloat our ship of State, and shall be glad to resign my trust at the appointed time to another pilot more skillful and successful than I may prove. In every case, and at all hazards, the Government must be perpetuated. Relying, as I do, upon the Almighty Power, and encouraged as I am by these resolutions which you have just read, with the support which I receive from Christian men, I shall not hesitate to use all the means at my control to secure the termination of this rebellion, and will hope for success. I sincerely thank you for this interview, this pleasant mode of presentation, and the General Assembly for their patriotic support in these resolutions.

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 3, 1863.
It has been suggested to me, and readily adopted by, to tender the Judgeship of Florida, to Hon John A. Bingham of Ohio. Please send me a commission for him. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Henry W. DePuy
June 3, 1863
Some time ago I said I was willing to appoint Mr. DePuy to an Indian Agency when there should be a vacancy; & I remember nothing coming to my knowledge since to change my mind in this respect. A. LINCOLN June 3. 1863.

To Henry W. Halleck

Will Gen. Halleck please glance over the within, & tell me whether there is anything in it which can be turned to account? June 3. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Can the Judge Advocate General make any suggestion as to what should be done in this, or any similar case? A LINCOLN June 3. 1863.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General, please preserve. Judge Foot is cousin to the Admiral, & is vouched as an excellent man. A. LINCOLN. June 4, 1863.

To Daniel Butterfield
War Department, Major General Butterfield: Washington, D.C., June 4, 1863.
The news you send me from the Richmond Sentinel of the 3d must be greatly if not wholly incorrect. The Thursday mentioned was the 28th, and we have dispatches here directly from Vicksburg of the 28th, 29th, 30th and 31st, and while they speak of the siege progressing, they speak of no assault or general fighting whatever, and in fact they so speak as to almost exclude the idea that there can have been any since Monday the 25th, which was not very heavy. Neither do they mention any demand made by Grant upon Pemberton for a surrender. They speak of our troops as being in good health, condition and spirits. Some of them do say that Banks has Port Hudson invested. A. LINCOLN.

Endorsementon Application of Richard Middleton
June 4, 1863
I understand that Richard Middleton, named within, has an application before Col. Long,  for employment; and while I do not personally know him, the within names are so good and ample, that I do not hesitate to say I shall be very glad if he can get the employment. A. LINCOLN June 4, 1863

To Joseph Hooker
`` Cypher '' Executive Mansion, Major General Hooker Washington, June 4. 1863.
Let execution of sentences in the cases of Daily, Margraff, and Harrington, be respited till further order from me, they remaining in close custody meanwhile. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Secretary of War: Washington, D.C., June 4, 1863.
My dear Sir: I have received additional dispatches which, with former ones, induce me to believe we should revoke or suspend the order suspending the Chicago Times, and if you concur in opinion, please have it done. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C., June 5, 1863.
Major-General Hooker: Would you like to have Capt. Treadwell Moore, now in California, to report to you for duty? A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C., Major General Hooker June 5. 1863
Yours of to-day was received an hour ago. So much of professional military skill is requisite to answer it, that I have turned the task over to Gen. Halleck. He promises to perform it with his utmost care. I have but one idea which I think worth suggesting to you, and that is in case you find Lee coming to the North of the Rappahannock, I would by no means cross to the South of it. If he should leave a rear force at Fredericksburg, tempting you to fall upon it, it would fight in intrenchments, and have you at disadvantage, and so, man for man, worst you at that point, while his main force would in some way be getting an advantage of you Northward. In one word, I would not take any risk of being entangled upon the river, like an ox jumped half over a fence, and liable to be torn by dogs, front and rear, without a fair chance to gore one way or kick the other. If Lee would come to my side of the river, I would keep on the same side & fight him, or act on the defence, according as might be my estimate of his strength relatively to my own. But these are mere suggestions which I desire to be controlled by the judgment of yourself and Gen. Halleck. A. LINCOLN

Anonymous Letter to the Editor of the WashingtonChronicle
Executive Mansion, Editor of the Chronicle. Washington, June 6. 1863.
In your issue of this morning, you have an article on the ``Chicago Times.'' Being an Illinoisian, I happen to know that much of the article is incorrect. As I remember, upon the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the democratic newspapers at Chicago went over to the opposition. Thereupon the Times was established by the friends of the administration, Senator Douglas being the most prominent in establishing it. A man by the name of James Sheahan, from this city, was it's first, and only editor, nearly if not quite all the remainder of the Senator's life. On the political separation between Mr. Buchanan and Senator Douglas, the Times adhered to the Senator, and was the ablest paper in his support through his senatorial contest with Mr. Lincoln. Since the last Presidential election certainly, perhaps since Senator Douglas' death, Mr. Sheahan left the Times; and the Times since then, has been identical with the Times before then, in little more than the name.  The writer hereof is not well enough posted to say but that your article in other respects is correct.

To Salmon P. Chase
June 6, 1863
. . . see Mr. Powell, and do for him any thing that you may think is safe for the government to do.

To John A. Dix
Major Gen. Dix Washington, D.C., Fort-Monroe, Va. June 6. 1863
By noticing the news you send from the Richmond Despatch of this morning you will see one of the very latest despatches says they have nothing reliable from Vicksburg since Sunday. Now, we here, have a despatch from there of Sunday, and others of almost every day preceding, since the investment; and while they show the siege progressing, they do not show any general fighting, since the 21st. and 22nd. We have nothing from Port-Hudson later than the 29th. when things looked reasonably well for us. I have thought this might be of some interest to you. A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Elizabeth J. Grimsley
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Grimsely Washington, D.C. Springfield, Illinois June 6. 1863
Is your John ready to enter the Naval-School? If he is, telegraph me his full name. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

These papers reached me at 1. PM. June 6th. 1863.

Order Assigning Daniel Tyler to Middle Department
War Department, Washington City, June 6, 1863.
Ordered, that Brig. Gen. D. Tyler be assigned to duty in the Middle Department, as senior brigadier in the Middle Department, without regard to priority in date of commission. A. LINCOLN, President of the United States

To Samuel R. Curtis
Major General Curtis Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, June 8. 1863.
I have scarcely supposed it possible that you would entirely understand my feelings and motives in making the late change of commander for the Department of the Missouri. I inclose you a copy of a letter which I recently addressed to Gen. Schofield, & which will explain the matter in part. It became almost a matter of personal self-defence to somehow break up the state of things in Missouri. I did not mean to cast any censure upon you, nor to indorse any of the charges made against you by others. With me the presumption is still in your favor that you are honest, capable, faithful, and patriotic. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To John A. Dix
Major Genl. Dix Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe. Washington, June 8. 1863.
We have despatches from Vicksburg of the 3rd. Siege progressing. No general fighting recently. All well. Nothing new from Port-Hudson. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major Gen. Dix. Washington, D.C., Fort-Monroe June 8 1863
The substance of the news sent of fight at Port-Hudson on the 27th. we have had here three or four days, and I supposed you had it also, when I said this morning ``No news from Port-Hudson.'' We knew that Gen. Sherman was wounded; but, we hoped, not so dangerously as your despatch represents. We still have nothing of that Richmond newspaper story of Kirby Smith crossing & of Banks losing an arm. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
June 8, 1863
Let Capt. Robert LeRoy, be appointed Assistant Adjutant General, with the rank of Captain, to report to Gen. Palmer, as within suggested by him. A. LINCOLN June 8. 1863.

To John P. Hale
Hon. John P. Hale Executive Mansion, Dover N.H. Washington, June 9, 1863.
I believe it was upon your recommendation that B. B. Bunker was appointed Attorney for Nevada Territory. I am pressed to remove him on the ground that he does not attend to the office, nor, in fact, pass much time in the territory. Do you wish to say anything on the subject? A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington D.C. Major Genl. Hooker June 9, 1863
I am told there are fifty incendiary shells here at the Arsenal made to fit the 100 pdr. Parrott Gun now with you. If this be true, would you like to have the Shells sent to you? A LINCOLN

To David Hunter
Executive Mansion, My Dear General Washington, June 9, 1863.
I find it still impossible to answer at length your communication received through Captain Kinzie. I am unwilling to detain him longer and have directed him to return to Hilton Head. I am very sincerly Your friend A LINCOLN Maj. Gen. D. Hunter

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. LINCOLN Executive Mansion, Philadelphia, Pa. Washington, June 9. 1863.
Think you better put ``Tad's'' pistol away. I had an ugly dream about him. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning James B. Caryl
June 10, 1863
I personally remember nothing about the case of Capt. Caryl, but if the Governor of New York, in his discretion, chooses to give him a military appointment, the disability resting upon Capt. Caryl is hereby removed, enabling the Governor to so appoint him.

To Joseph Hooker
United States Military Telegraph ``Cypher'' War Department. Washington DC. Major General Hooker June 10. 1863. [6:40 P.M.]
Your long despatch of to-day is just received. If left to me, I would not go South of the Rappahannock, upon Lee's moving North of it. If you had Richmond invested to-day, you would not be able to take it in twenty days; meanwhile, your communications, and with them, your army would be ruined. I think Lee's Army, and not Richmond , is your true objective point. If he comes towards the Upper Potomac, follow on his flank, and on the inside track, shortening your lines, whilst he lengthens his. Fight him when oppertunity offers. If he stays where he is, fret him, and fret him. A LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

Regretting my forgetfulness. of course I will see Mr Molina tomorrow. A. LINCOLN June 10. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
[c. June 10, 1863]
Let the recommendation of the Judge Advocate General be carried into effect as of the date of his new commission June 10. 1863

To Lorenzo Thomas
June 10 and 13, 1863
Will the Adjutant General please inform the bearer, Mr. Wood, what is the condition of L. W. Muzzey, as to being a Commissary of subsistence. Mr. Wood says he has, for a long time been acting as such, & supposing himself to have been appointed as such. June 10. 1863. A. LINCOLN If the appointment within sought can be consistently made, let it be done. A. LINCOLN June. 13. 1863.

Introduction for Richard W. Thompson
June 11, 1863
Col. R. W. Thompson is my friend, whom I would be glad to have obliged in any way not inconsistent with the public interest. A. LINCOLN

To Jesus Jimenez
June 11, 1863
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, To His Excellency Senor Don Jesus Jimenez, President of the Republic of Costa Rica. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which you addressed to me on the 8th. ultimo, informing me of your Excellency's elevation to the Presidency of the Republic by the free suffrages of your fellow-citizens and offering to me assurances of your desire to cultivate the relations established between our respective Governments. I congratulate your Excellency upon this token of the confidence of the People of Costa Rica in your sagacity and statesmanship, and feel satisfied that the trust conferred upon you will be discharged for the best interests of that Republic. It shall be my constant endeavor so to conduct the relations between our respective countries as to strengthen the good understanding which now happily subsists. I pray your Excellency to accept the assurances of my earnest wishes for your personal happiness and for the prosperity of Costa Rica. And so commending you to the care of the Almighty I remain Your Excellency's Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. Washington, June 11, 1863.

To Mary LINCOLN
Mrs. LINCOLN Executive Mansion, Philadelphia Washington, June 11, 1863.
Your three despatches received. I am very well; and am glad to know that you & ``Tad'' are so. A. LINCOLN

To Erastus Corning and Others
Executive Mansion Hon. Erastus Corning & others Washington [June 12] 1863.
Gentlemen Your letter of May 19th. inclosing the resolutions of a public meeting held at Albany, N.Y. on the 16th. of the same month, was received several days ago. The resolutions, as I understand them, are resolvable into two propositions---first, the expression of a purpose to sustain the cause of the Union, to secure peace through victory, and to support the administration in every constitutional, and lawful measure to suppress the rebellion; and secondly, a declaration of censure upon the administration for supposed unconstitutional action such as the making of military arrests. And, from the two propositions a third is deduced, which is, that the gentlemen composing the meeting are resolved on doing their part to maintain our common government and country, despite the folly or wickedness, as they may conceive, of any administration. This position is eminently patriotic, and as such, I thank the meeting, and congratulate the nation for it. My own purpose is the same; so that the meeting and myself have a common object, and can have no difference, except in the choice of means or measures, for effecting that object. And here I ought to close this paper, and would close it, if there were no apprehension that more injurious consequences, than any merely personal to myself, might follow the censures systematically cast upon me for doing what, in my view of duty, I could not forbear. The resolutions promise to support me in every constitutional and lawful measure to suppress the rebellion; and I have not knowingly employed, nor shall knowingly employ, any other. But the meeting, by their resolutions, assert and argue, that certain military arrests and proceedings following them for which I am ultimately responsible, are unconstitutional. I think they are not. The resolutions quote from the constitution, the definition of treason; and also the limiting safe-guards and guarrantees therein provided for the citizen, on trials for treason, and on his being held to answer for capital or otherwise infamous crimes, and, in criminal prossecutions, his right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury. They proceed to resolve ``That these safe-guards of the rights of the citizen against the pretentions of arbitrary power, were intended more especially for his protection in times of civil commotion.'' And, apparently, to demonstrate the proposition, the resolutions proceed ``They were secured substantially to the English people, after years of protracted civil war, and were adopted into our constitution at the close of the revolution.'' Would not the demonstration have been better, if it could have been truly said that these safe-guards had been adopted, and applied during the civil wars and during our revolution, instead of after the one, and at the close of the other. I too am devotedly for them after civil war, and before civil war, and at all times ``except when, in cases of Rebellion or Invasion, the public Safety may require'' their suspension. The resolutions proceed to tell us that these safe-guards ``have stood the test of seventysix years of trial, under our republican system, under circumstances which show that while they constitute the foundation of all free government, they are the elements of the enduring stability of the Republic.'' No one denies that they have so stood the test up to the beginning of the present rebellion if we except a certain matter [occurrence]  at New-Orleans hereafter to be mentioned; nor does any one question that they will stand the same test much longer after the rebellion closes. But these provisions of the constitution have no application to the case we have in hand, because the arrests complained of were not made for treason---that is, not for the treason defined in the constitution, and upon the conviction of which, the punishment is death---- nor yet were they made to hold persons to answer for any capital, or otherwise infamous crimes; nor were the proceedings following, in any constitutional or legal sense, ``criminal prossecutions.'' The arrests were made on totally different grounds, and the proceedings following, accorded with the grounds of the arrests. Let us consider the real case with which we are dealing, and apply to it the parts of the constitution plainly made for such cases.  Prior to my instalation here it had been inculcated that any State had a lawful right to secede from the national Union; and that it would be expedient to exercise the right, whenever the devotees of the doctrine should fail to elect a President to their own liking. I was elected contrary to their liking; and accordingly, so far as it was legally possible, they had taken seven states out of the Union, had seized many of the United States Forts, and had fired upon the United States' Flag, all before I was inaugerated; and, of course, before I had done any official act whatever. The rebellion, thus began soon ran into the present civil war;  and, in certain respects, it began on very unequal terms between the parties. The insurgents had been preparing for it more than thirty years, while the government had taken no steps to resist them. The former had carefully considered all the means which could be turned to their account. It undoubtedly was a well pondered reliance with them that in their own unrestricted effort to destroy Union, constitution, and law, all together, the government would, in great degree, be restrained by the same constitution and law, from arresting their progress. Their sympathizers pervaded all departments of the government, and nearly all communities of the people. From this material, under cover of ``Liberty of speech'' ``Liberty of the press'' and `` Habeas corpus '' they hoped to keep on foot amongst us a most efficient corps of spies, informers, supplyers, and aiders and abettors of their cause in a thousand ways. They knew that in times such as they were inaugerating, by the constitution itself, the ``Habeas corpus'' might be suspended; but they also knew they had friends who would make a question  as to who was to suspend it; meanwhile their spies and others might remain at large to help on their cause. Or if, as has happened, the executive should suspend the writ, without ruinous waste of time, instances of arresting innocent persons might occur, as are always likely to occur in such cases; and then a clamor  could be raised in regard to this, which might be, at least, of some service to the insurgent cause. It needed no very keen perception to discover this part of the enemies' programme, so soon as by open hostilities their machinery was fairly put in motion. Yet, thoroughly imbued with a reverence for the guarranteed rights of individuals, I was slow to adopt the strong measures, which by degrees I have been forced to regard as being within the exceptions of the constitution, and as indispensable to the public Safety. Nothing is better known to history than that courts of justice are utterly incompetent to such cases. Civil courts are organized chiefly for trials of individuals, or, at most, a few individuals acting in concert; and this in quiet times, and on charges of crimes well defined in the law. Even in times of peace, bands of horse-thieves and robbers frequently grow too numerous and powerful for the ordinary courts of justice. But what comparison, in numbers, have such bands ever borne to the insurgent sympathizers even in many of the loyal states? Again, a jury  too frequently have at least one member, more ready to hang the panel than to hang the traitor. And yet again, he who dissuades one man from volunteering, or induces one soldier to desert, weakens the Union cause as much as he who kills a union soldier in battle. Yet this dissuasion, or inducement, may be so conducted as to be no defined crime of which any civil court would take cognizance. Ours is a case of Rebellion---so called by the resolutions before me---in fact, a clear, flagrant, and gigantic case of Rebellion; and the provision of the constitution that ``The previlege of the writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in cases of Rebellion or Invasion, the public Safety may require it'' is the provision which specially applies to our present case. This provision plainly attests the understanding of those who made the constitution that ordinary courts of justice are inadequate to ``cases of Rebellion''---attests their purpose that in such cases, men  may be held in custody whom the courts acting on ordinary rules, would discharge. Habeas Corpus, does not discharge men who are proved to be guilty of defined crime; and its suspension is allowed by the constitution on purpose that, men may be arrested and held, who can not be proved to be guilty of defined crime, ``when, in cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.'' This is precisely our present case---a case of Rebellion, wherein the public Safety does require the suspension. Indeed, arrests by process of courts, and arrests in cases of rebellion, do not proceed altogether upon the same basis. The former is directed at the small per centage of ordinary and continuous perpetration of crime; while the latter is directed at sudden and extensive uprisings against the government, which, at most, will succeed or fail, in no great length of time. In the latter case, arrests are made, not so much for what has been done, as for what probably would be done. The latter is more for the preventive, and less for the vindictive, than the former. In such cases the purposes of men are much more easily understood, than in cases of ordinary crime. The man who stands by and says nothing, when the peril of his government is discussed, can not be misunderstood. If not hindered, he is sure to help the enemy. Much more, if he talks ambiguously---talks for his country with ``buts'' and ``ifs'' and ``ands.'' Of how little value the constitutional provision I have quoted will be rendered, if arrests shall never be made until defined crimes shall have been committed, may be illustrated by a few notable examples. Gen. John C. Breckienridge, Gen. Robert E. Lee, Gen. Joseph E. Johnston, Gen. John B. Magruder, Gen. William B. Preston, Gen. Simon B. Buckner, and Comodore [Franklin] Buchanan, now occupying the very highest places in the rebel war service, were all within the power of the government since the rebellion began, and were nearly as well known to be traitors then as now. Unquestionably if we had seized and held them, the insurgent cause would be much weaker. But no one of them had then committed any crime defined in the law. Every one of them if arrested would have been discharged on Habeas Corpus, were the writ allowed to operate. In view of these and similar cases, I think the time not unlikely to come when I shall be blamed for having made too few arrests rather than too many. By the third resolution the meeting indicate their opinion that military arrests may be constitutional in localities where rebellion actually exists; but that such arrests are unconstitutional in localities where rebellion, or insurrection, does not actually exist. They insist that such arrests shall not be made ``outside of the lines of necessary military occupation, and the scenes of insurrection'' In asmuch, however, as the constitution itself makes no such distinction, I am unable to believe that there is any such constitutional distinction. I concede that the class of arrests complained of, can be constitutional only when, in cases of Rebellion or Invasion, the public Safety may require them; and I insist that in such cases, they are constitutional wherever the public safety does require them---as well in places to which they may prevent the rebellion extending, as in those where it may be already prevailing---as well where they may restrain mischievous interference with the raising and supplying of armies, to suppress the rebellion, as where the rebellion may actually be---as well where they may restrain the enticing men out of the army, as where they would prevent mutiny in the army---equally constitutional at all places where they will conduce to the public Safety, as against the dangers of Rebellion or Invasion. Take the particular case mentioned by the meeting. They assert [It is asserted]  in substance that Mr. Vallandigham was by a military commander, seized and tried ``for no other reason than words addressed to a public meeting, in criticism of the course of the administration, and in condemnation of the military orders of that general'' Now, if there be no mistake about this---if this assertion is the truth and the whole truth---if there was no other reason for the arrest, then I concede that the arrest was wrong. But the arrest, as I understand, was made for a very different reason. Mr. Vallandigham avows his hostility to the war on the part of the Union; and his arrest was made because he was laboring, with some effect, to prevent the raising of troops, to encourage desertions from the army, and to leave the rebellion without an adequate military force to suppress it. He was not arrested because he was damaging the political prospects of the administration, or the personal interests of the commanding general; but because he was damaging the army, upon the existence, and vigor of which, the life of the nation depends. He was warring upon the military; and this gave the military constitutional jurisdiction to lay hands upon him. If Mr. Vallandigham was not damaging the military power of the country, then his arrest was made on mistake of fact, which I would be glad to correct, on reasonably satisfactory evidence. I understand the meeting, whose resolutions I am considering, to be in favor of suppressing the rebellion by military force---by armies. Long experience has shown that armies can not be maintained unless desertion shall be punished by the severe penalty of death. The case requires, and the law and the constitution, sanction this punishment. Must I shoot a simple-minded soldier boy who deserts, while I must not touch a hair of a wiley agitator who induces him to desert? This is none the less injurious when effected by getting a father, or brother, or friend, into a public meeting, and there working upon his feeling, till he is persuaded to write the soldier boy, that he is fighting in a bad cause, for a wicked administration of a contemptable government, too weak to arrest and punish him if he shall desert. I think that in such a case, to silence the agitator, and save the boy, is not only constitutional, but, withal, a great mercy.  If I be wrong on this question of constitutional power, my error lies in believing that certain proceedings are constitutional when, in cases of rebellion or Invasion, the public Safety requires them, which would not be constitutional when, in absence of rebellion or invasion, the public Safety does not require them---in other words, that the constitution is not in it's application in all respects the same, in cases of Rebellion or invasion, involving the public Safety, as it is in times of profound peace and public security. The constitution itself makes the distinction; and I can no more be persuaded that the government can constitutionally take no strong measure in time of rebellion, because it can be shown that the same could not be lawfully taken in time of peace, than I can be persuaded that a particular drug is not good medicine for a sick man, because it can be shown to not be good food for a well one. Nor am I able to appreciate the danger, apprehended by the meeting, that the American people will, by means of military arrests during the rebellion, lose the right of public discussion, the liberty of speech and the press, the law of evidence, trial by jury, and Habeas corpus, throughout the indefinite peaceful future which I trust lies before them, any more than I am able to believe that a man could contract so strong an appetite for emetics during temporary illness,  as to persist in feeding upon them through the remainder of his healthful life. In giving the resolutions that earnest consideration which you request of me, I can not overlook the fact that the meeting speak as ``Democrats.'' Nor can I, with full respect for their known intelligence, and the fairly presumed deliberation with which they prepared their resolutions, be permitted to suppose that this occurred by accident, or in any way other than that they preferred to designate themselves ``democrats'' rather than ``American citizens.'' In this time of national peril I would have preferred to meet you upon a level one step higher than any party platform; because I am sure that from such more elevated position, we could do better battle for the country we all love, than we possibly can from those lower ones, where from the force of habit, the prejudices of the past, and selfish hopes of the future, we are sure to expend much of our ingenuity and strength, in finding fault with, and aiming blows at each other. But since you have denied me this, I will yet be thankful, for the country's sake, that not all democrats have done so. He on whose discretionary judgment Mr. Vallandigham was arrested and tried, is a democrat, having no old party affinity with me; and the judge who rejected the constitutional view expressed in these resolutions, by refusing to discharge Mr. V. on Habeas Corpus, is a democrat of better days than these, having received his judicial mantle at the hands of President Jackson. And still more, of all those democrats who are nobly exposing their lives and shedding their blood on the battle-field, I have learned that many approve the course taken with Mr. V. while I have not heard of a single one condemning it. I can not assert that there are none such. And  the name of President Jackson recalls a bit [an instance]  of pertinent history. After the battle of New-Orleans, and while the fact that the treaty of peace had been concluded, was well known in the city, but before official knowledge of it had arrived, Gen. Jackson still maintained martial, or military law. Now, that it could be said the war was over, the clamor against martial law, which had existed from the first, grew more furious. Among other things a Mr. Louiallier  published a denunciatory newspaper article. Gen. Jackson arrested him. A lawyer by the name of Morel  procured the U.S. Judge Hall  to order a writ of Habeas Corpus to release Mr. Louiallier. Gen. Jackson arrested both the lawyer and the judge. A Mr. Hollander  ventured to say of some part of the matter that ``it was a dirty trick.'' Gen. Jackson arrested him. When the officer undertook to serve the writ of Habeas Corpus, Gen. Jackson took it from him, and sent him away with a copy. Holding the judge in custody a few days, the general sent him beyond the limits of his encampment, and set him at liberty, with an order to remain till the ratification of peace should be regularly announced, or until the British should have left the Southern coast. A day or two more elapsed, the ratification of the treaty of peace was regularly announced, and the judge and others were fully liberated. A few days more, and the judge called Gen. Jackson into court and fined him a thousand dollars, for having arrested him and the others named. The general paid the fine, and there the matter rested for nearly thirty years, when congress refunded principal and interest. The late Senator Douglas, then in the House of Representatives, took a leading part in the debate, in which the constitutional question was much discussed. I am not prepared to say whom the Journals would show to have voted for the measure. It may be remarked: First, that we had the same constitution then, as now. Secondly, that we then had a case of Invasion, and that now we have a case of Rebellion, and: Thirdly, that the permanent right of the people to public discussion, the liberty of speech and the press, the trial by jury, the law of evidence, and the Habeas Corpus, suffered no detriment whatever by that conduct of Gen. Jackson, or it's subsequent approval by the American congress. And yet, let me say that in my own discretion, I do not know whether I would have ordered the arrest of Mr. V. While I can not shift the responsibility from myself, I hold that, as a general rule, the commander in the field is the better judge of the necessity in any particular case. Of course I must practice a general directory and revisory power in the matter. One of the resolutions expresses the opinion of the meeting that arbitrary arrests will have the effect to divide and distract those who should be united in suppressing the rebellion; and I am specifically called on to discharge Mr. Vallandigham. I regard this as, at least, a fair appeal to me, on the expediency of exercising a constitutional power which I think exists. In response to such appeal I have to say it gave me pain when I learned that Mr. V. had been arrested,---that is,  I was pained that there should have seemed to be a necessity for arresting him---and that it will afford me great pleasure to discharge him so soon as I can, by any means, believe the public safety will not suffer by it. I further say, that as the war progress, it appears to me, opinion, and action, which were in great confusion at first, take shape, and fall into more regular channels; so that the necessity for arbitrary [strong]  dealing with them gradually decreases. I have every reason to desire that it would cease altogether; and far from the least is my regard for the opinions and wishes of those who, like the meeting at Albany, declare their purpose to sustain the government in every constitutional and lawful measure to suppress the rebellion. Still,  I must continue to do so much as may seem to be required by the public safety. A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Halleck
June 12, 1863
The within comes in answer to a proposition of mine to visit Gen. Hooker on tomorrow night (Saturday). I have thought perhaps Gen. Halleck better see it. A. LINCOLN June 12. 1863.

To Joseph Holt
June 12, 1863
[Lieut. Garretson]---forged a pass, or furlough. If the Judge Advocate Genl upon examining this case shall be of opinion that Lt. Garretson can be relieved without detriment to the service, I shall be glad to do it. Will he please examine & report to me A. LINCOLN June 12. 1863.

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, June 12, 1863---2 p.m.
Major-General Hooker: If you can show me a trial of the incendiary shells on Saturday night, I will try to join you at 5 p.m. that day. Answer. A. LINCOLN.

To Erastus Corning
Private Hon. Erastus Corning Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 13, 1863.
Herewith I inclose you the promised response to the resolutions of the Albany meeting Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine & report on this case. June 13. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
`` Cypher '' Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Hooker June. 13, 1863.
I was coming down this afternoon; but if you would prefer I should not, I shall blame you if you do not tell me so. A. LINCOLN

To Leopold
June 13, 1863
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America To His Majesty, Leopold, King of the Belgians. Great and Good Friend: I have received through the minister of the United States accredited to Your Majesty, the award in the case of the claim of certain citizens of the United States upon the Government of the Republic of Chili, which by agreement between this Government and the Government of that Republic, was submitted to Your Majesty's arbitrament, a trust was accepted by Your Majesty. The confidence in Your Majesty's uprightness, impartiality and intelligence which led the parties interested to seek from Your Majesty a decision of the long pending controversy adverted to will, it is believed, be regarded by all the parties interested, as justified by the result. In this respect, I can speak with perfect assurance, at least on the part of this Government. I cannot omit to add an expression of my thanks for the pains which Your Majesty must have taken to reach a correct conclusion in so arduos a business, and my belief that Your Majesty's success in this instance will not be regarded as an unimportant proof of the wisdem which has characterized Your Majestys illustrious reign. And so I pray God to have Your Majesty in His safe and holy keeping Written at the City of Washington the 13th. day of June Anno Domini 1863. Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State

To Gideon Welles

Sec. of Navy, please allow the bearer, Mr. Lyman, to take his new cannon into the Navy-Yard where I wish to see it fired next week. June 13. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, June 14, 1863.
Hon. Secretary of the Treasury. Sir:---Your note of this morning is received. You will co-operate by the revenue cutters under your direction with the navy in arresting rebel depredations on American commerce and transportation and in capturing rebels engaged therein. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, June 14, 1863 1.14 p.m.
Major-General Hooker: Do you consider it possible that 15,000 of Ewell's men can now be at Winchester? A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, June 14, 1863---5.50 p.m.
Major-General Hooker: So far as we can make out here, the enemy have Milroy surrounded at Winchester, and Tyler at Martinsburg. If they could hold out a few days, could you help them? If the head of Lee's army is at Martinsburg and the tail of it on the Plank road between Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville, the animal must be very slim somewhere. Could you not break him? A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Hooker. June 14. 11.55 P.M. 1863.
Yours of 11.30 just received. You have nearly all the elements for forming an opinion whether Winchester is surrounded that I have. I really fear---almost believe, it is. No communication has been had with it during the day, either at Martinsburg, or Harper's Ferry. At 7 P.M., we also lost communication with Martinsburg. The enemy had also appeared there some hours before. At 9. PM. Harper's Ferry said the enemy was reported at Berryville & Smithfield. If I could know that Longstreet and Ewell moved in that direction so long ago as you stated in your last, then I should feel sure that Winchester is strongly invested. It is quite certain that a considerable force of the enemy is thereabout; and I fear it is an overwhelming one, compared with Milroys. I am unable to give any more certain opinion. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Kelley
Major-General Kelley, Washington, Harper's Ferry: June 14, 1863-1.27 p.m.
Are the forces at Winchester and Martinsburg making any effort to get to you? A. LINCOLN.

To Robert C. Schenck
`` Cypher '' Gen. Schenck Washington, D.C., Baltimore June 14 1863
Get Milroy from Winchester to Harper's Ferry if possible. He will be gobbled up, if he remains, if he is not already past salvation. A. LINCOLN

To Daniel Tyler
``Cypher'' Gen. Tyler--- Washington, D.C., Martinsburg. June 14 1863
Is Milroy invested, so that he can not fall back to Harper's Ferry? A. LINCOLN

To Daniel Tyler
`` Cypher '' Gen. Tyler Washington, D.C., Martinsburg. June 14 1863
If you are beseiged, how do you despatch me? Why did you not leave, before being besieged? A. LINCOLN

To Edward L. Baker
E. L. Baker, Esq Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, June 15, 1863.
Not to exceed two hours after you left me I received a letter from Springfield, renewing the pressure upon me in the matter we talked of; and, in fact, leaving me no alternative but to make some change there. I can say but little beyond what I then said to you. The appeal to me in behalf of Mr. Edwards and Mr. Bailhasche,  for a hearing, does not meet the case. No formal charges are preferred against them, so far as I know; nor do I expect any will be made; or, if made, will be substantiated. I certainly do not suppose Mr. Edwards has, at this time of his life, given up his old habits, and turned dishonest; and while I have not known Mr. Bailhasche so long, I have no more affermative reason to suspect him. The trouble with me is of a different character. Sprinfield is my home, and there, more than elsewhere, are my life-long friends. These, for now nearly two years, have been harrassing me because of Mr. E. & Mr. B. I think Mr. E. & Mr. B. without dishonesty on the other hand, could have saved me from this, if they had cared to do so. They have seemed to think that if they could keep their official record dryly correct, to say the least, it was not any difference how much they might provoke my friends, and harrass me. If this is too strong a statement of the case, still the result has been the same to me; and, as a misfortune merely, I think I have already borne a fair share of it. In what I may do, I shall try to so shape it, as to not seem to mean more than is really intended. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
Major General Hooker Washington City, Fairfax Station. June 15. 81/2 P.M. 1863
The facts are now known here that Winchester and Martinsburg were both besieged yesterday; the troops from Martinsburg have got into Harper's Ferry without loss; those from Winchester, are also in, having lost, in killed, wounded and missing, about one third of their number. Of course the enemy holds both places; and I think the report is authentic that he is crossing the Potomac at Williamsburg. We have not heard of his yet appearing at Harper's Ferry, or on the river anywhere below. I would like to hear from you. A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. Lincoln June 15, 1863.
Philadelphia, Pa. Tolerably well. Have not rode out much yet, but have at last got new tires on the carriage wheels, & perhaps, shall ride out soon. A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Calling for 100,000 Militia
June 15, 1863
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. Whereas the armed insurrectionary combinations now existing in several of the States are threatening to make inroads into the States of Maryland, Western Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio, requiring immediately an additional military force for the service of the United States; Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States and Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy thereof and of the Militia of the several States when called into actual service, do, hereby, call into the service of the United States, one hundred thousand militia from the States following, namely---from the State of Maryland ten thousand, from the State of Pennsylvania, fifty thousand, from the State of Ohio, thirty thousand, from the State of West Virginia, ten thousand, to be mustered into the service of the United States forthwith and to serve for the period of six months from the date of such muster into said service, unless sooner discharged; to be mustered in as infantry, artillery and cavalry, in proportions which will be made known through the War Department, which Department will also designate the several places of rendezvous. These militia to be organized according to the rules and regulations of the volunteer service and such orders as may hereafter be issued. The States aforesaid will be respectively credited under the enrolment act for the militia services rendered under this proclamation. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington this fifteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty seventh. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To Daniel Tyler
Gen. Tyler, War Department Washington City, Harper's Ferry. June 15. 8/45. P.M 1863.
It would be useful, if we could tell Hooker, about what number of the enemy is about Winchester and all North of it---also what troops they are. I will be obliged, if you will ascertain as nearly as you can, and inform me. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
June 16, 1863
I sought and obtained an interview with the District Attorney in regard to this case, and thereupon concluded to remit the fines in this, and the case of the brother convicted at the same time, leaving the costs, and imprisonment, undisturbed. Will the Attorney General please prepare the proper paper? A. LINCOLN June 16. 1863.

To Horace Binney, Jr.
Horace Binney, Jr Washington, D.C., Philadelphia June 16. 1863
I sent Gen. Cadwallader, some hours ago, to the Sec. of War, & Gen. in-chief, with the question you ask. I have not heard the result. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Bliss
Col. Wm. S. Bliss. Executive Mansion, New-York Hotel Washington, June 16 1863.
Your despatch, asking whether I will accept ``the loyal Brigade of the North'' is received. I never heard of that Brigade, by name, and do not know where it is; yet presuming that it is in New-York, I say I will gladly accept it, if tendered by and with the consent and approbation of the Governor of that State---otherwise not. A. LINCOLN

To Augustin Chester

The reports which I have, from the Judge Advocate General, are adverse to Capt Riley and Lieut. Pike A. LINCOLN June 16. 1863

To Joseph Holt

Sentence remitted & accused ordered to be discharged. June 16, 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C., Major General Hooker: June 16, 1863.
Your despatches of last night and this morning are just received. I shall have General Halleck to answer them carefully. Meanwhile, I can only say that, as I understand, Heintzelman commands here in this District; that what troops, or very nearly what number, are at Harper's Ferry I do not know, though I do know that Tyler is in command there. Your idea to send your cavalry to this side of the river may be right---probably is; still, it pains me a little that it looks like defensive merely, and seems to abandon the fair chance now presented of breaking the enemy's long and necessarily slim line, stretched now from the Rappahannock to Pennsylvania. A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
( Private .) Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., June 16, 1863.
My dear General: I send you this by the hand of Captain Dahlgren.  FOOTNOTES}>(2) Your despatch of 11:30 A.M. to-day is just received. When you say I have long been aware that you do not enjoy the confidence of the major-general commanding, you state the case much too strongly. You do not lack his confidence in any degree to do you any harm. On seeing him, after telegraphing you this morning, I found him more nearly agreeing with you than I was myself. Surely you do not mean to understand that I am withholding my confidence from you when I happen to express an opinion (certainly never discourteously) differing from one of your own. I believe Halleck is dissatisfied with you to this extent only, that he knows that you write and telegraph (``report,'' as he calls it) to me. I think he is wrong to find fault with this; but I do not think he withholds any support from you on account of it. If you and he would use the same frankness to one another, and to me, that I use to both of you, there would be no difficulty. I need and must have the professional skill of both, and yet these suspicions tend to deprive me of both. I believe you are aware that since you took command of the army I have not believed you had any chance to effect anything till now. As it looks to me, Lee's now returning toward Harper's Ferry gives you back the chance that I thought McClellan lost last fall. Quite possibly I was wrong both then and now; but, in the great responsibility resting upon me, I cannot be entirely silent. Now, all I ask is that you will be in such mood that we can get into our action the best cordial judgment of yourself and General Halleck, with my poor mite added, if indeed he and you shall think it entitled to any consideration at all. Yours as ever, A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Hooker
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Hooker. June 16. 1863. [10 P.M.]
To remove all misunderstanding, I now place you in the strict military relation to Gen. Halleck, of a commander of one of the armies, to the General-in-Chief of all the armies. I have not intended differently; but as it seems to be differently understood, I shall direct him to give you orders, and you to obey them. A. LINCOLN

To Frederick Kapp and Others
Frederick Kapp & others Washington, D.C., New-York June 16. 1863
The Governor of New-York promises to send us troops; and if he wishes the assistance of Gen. Fremont & Gen. Sigel, one or both, he can have it. If he does not wish them, it would but breed confusion for us to set them to work independently of him. A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. Lincoln Washington City, D.C. Philadelphia. June 16. 1863
It is a matter of choice with yourself whether you come home. There is no reason why you should not, that did not exist when you went away. As bearing on the question of your coming home, I do not think the raid into Pennsylvania amounts to anything at all A. LINCOLN

To Thomas F. Meagher
Gen. T. Francis Meagher Washington, D.C., New-York. June 16, 1863
Your despatch received. Shall be very glad for you to raise 3000 Irish troops, if done by the consent of, and in concert with, Governor Seymour. A. LINCOLN

To Daniel Tyler
Gen. Tyler, Washington, D.C., Harper's Ferry. June 16. 5/35 P.M. 1863
Please answer as soon as you can the following inquiries, which Gen. Hooker makes. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, June 17, 1863.
I have concluded to tender to Richard S. Cox Esq, of this District, the appointment for codifying the laws of the District, under the 17th. & 18th. sections of the act of Congress entitled ``An act to reorganize the Courts in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes'' Approved March 3. 1863. Please prepare & send me a proper paper to sign for that object. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, D.C., Majr. Genl. Hooker June 17. 1863
Mr. Eckert, Superintendent in the Telegraph Office, assures me that he has sent, and will send you everything, that comes to the office. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum about Israel D. Andrews
Executive Mansion, Washington, June 17. 1863.
Mr. Israel D. Andrews appeals to me, saying he is suffering injury by something I have said of him. I really know very little of Mr. Andrews. As well as I can remember, I was called on by one or two persons, asking me to give him, or aid him in getting some public employment; and, as a reason for declining I stated that I had a very unfavorable opinion of him, chiefly because I had been informed that, in connection with some former service of his to the government, he had presented an enormous, and unjustifiable claim, which I understood he was still pressing the government to pay. I certainly did not pretend to know anything of the matter personally; and I say now, I do not personally know anything which should detract from Mr. Andrews' character A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please respond to this. A. LINCOLN June 17. 1863.

To A. Dingman
Gen. A. Dingman Washington, D.C., Belleville, C.W. June 18. 1863
Thanks for your offer of the fifteenth battalion. I do not think Washington is in danger. A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt
June 18, 1863
Sentence mitigated to a severe reprimand, in accordance with the Judge Advocate General's recommendation, to be published in General Orders by the War Department. A. LINCOLN June 18, 1863.

To James K. Moorhead
``Cypher'' Hon. J. K. Moorehead Washington City, Pittsburgh, Penn. June 18. 1863.
If Gen. Brooks, now in command at Pittsburgh, finds any person or persons, injuriously affecting his military operations, he is authorized to arrest him, or them, at once, if the case is urgent; if not urgent, let him communicate the particulars to me. Gen. Brooks is the man to now manage this matter at Pittsburgh. Please show this to him. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, June 18. 1863.
Could you, without too much trouble, have sent to me a statement of the case of John Steele, who, it seems, has been banished to Canada. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joshua Tevis
Joshua Tevis, Esq Executive Mansion, U.S. Attorney Washington, Frankfort, Ky. June 18. 1863.
A Mr. Buckner is here, showing a record, and asking to be discharged from a suit in Scire-Facias, as bail for one Thompson. Unless the record shown me is defectively made out, I think it can be successfully defended against. Please examine the case carefully; and if you shall be of opinion it can not be sustained, dismiss it, and relieve me from all trouble about it. Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To David Tod
`` Cypher '' Gov. D. Tod. Executive Mansion, Columbus, O. Washington, June 18, 1863.
Yours received. I deeply regret that you were not re-nominated---not that I have ought against Mr. Brough. On the contrary, like yourself, I say, hurrah, for him. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
June 19, 1863
Sentence in this case commuted to imprisonment at hard labor for the term of one year. A. LINCOLN

To E. E. Malhiot, Bradish Johnson, and Thomas Cottman
Messrs E. E. Malhiot, Executive Mansion, Bradish Johnson, & Washington, Thomas Cottman June 19, 1863.
Gentlemen Your letter, which follows, has been received, and considered. ``To His Excellency Abraham Lincoln President of the United States: The undersigned, a committee appointed by the Planters of the State of Louisiana, respectfully represent, that they have been delegated to seek of the General Government a full recognition of all the rights of the State, as they existed previous to the passage of an act of secession, upon the principle of the existence of the State Constitution unimpaired, and no legal act having transpired that could in any way deprive them of the advantages conferred by that Constitution. Under this constitution the State wishes to return to its full allegiance, in the enjoyment of all rights and privileges exercised by the other states under the Federal Constitution. With the view of accomplishing the desired object, we farther request that your Excellency will as Commander-in-chief of the Army of the United States direct the military Governor of Louisiana to order an election in conformity with the constitution and laws of the State, on the first Monday of November next, for all State and Federal Officers. ``With high consideration and respect we have the honor to subscribe ourselves Your Obt Servts. E. E. MALHIOT BRADISH JOHNSON THOMAS COTTMAN.'' Since receiving the letter, reliable information has reached me that a respectable portion of the Louisiana people desire to amend their State constitution, and contemplate holding a convention for that object. This fact alone, as it seems to me, is a sufficient reason why the general government should not give the committal you seek, to the existing State constitution. I may add that, while I do not perceive how such committal could facilitate our military operations in Louisiana, I really apprehend it might be so used as to embarrass them. As to an election to be held next November, there is abundant time, without any order, or proclamation from me just now. The people of Louisiana shall not lack an oppertunity of a fair election for both Federal and State officers, by want of anything within my power to give them. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum
[June 19, 1863]
If the military force of the rebellion were already out of the way, so that the people of Louisiana could now practically enter upon the enjoyment of their rights under the present State and National Constitutions, your request would stand before me in a different aspect.

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, June 21, 1863-9 a.m.
Major-General Hooker: Operator at Leesburg just now tells us that firing commenced about 7 this morning in direction from here of Aldie's Gap and Middleburg; has continued all day, and has receded from him, and is apparently now about White Plains; was very heavy this morning, but lighter now. A. LINCOLN.

To John M. Schofield
Gen. Schofield. Washington D.C. St. Louis, Mo June 21. 1863.
I write you to-day in answer to your despatch of yesterday. If you can not await the arrival by mail, telegraph me again. A. LINCOLN

Assignment of Stephen J. Field
Executive Mansion, Washington, June 22, 1863.
Whereas the act of Congress approved the 3d day of March, A.D. 1863, entitled ``An act to provide circuit courts for the districts of California and Oregon, and for other purposes,'' authorized the appointment of one additional associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, and provided that the districts of California and Oregon should constitute the tenth circuit and that the other circuits should remain as then constituted by law; and Whereas Stephen J. Field was appointed the said additional associate justice of the Supreme Court since the last adjournment of said court, and consequently he was not allotted to the said circuit according to the fifth section of the act of Congress entitled ``An act to amend the judicial system of the United States,'' approved the 29th day of April, 1802: Now I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, under the authority of said section, do allot the said associate justice, Stephen J. Field, to the said tenth circuit. Attest: ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Titian J. Coffey Attorney-General ad interim.

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, June 22, 1863.
Major-General Hooker: Operator at Leesburg just now says: ``I heard very little firing this a.m. about daylight, but it seems to have stopped now. It was in about the same direction as yesterday, but farther off.'' A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum
June 22, 1863
Appointments within recommended, made this 22nd. June 1863.

To John M. Schofield
Gen. John M. Schofield. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, June 22, 1863.
Your despatch, asking in substance, whether, in case Missouri shall adopt gradual emancipation, the general government will protect slave owners in that species of property during the short time it shall be permitted by the State to exist within it, has been received. Desirous as I am, that emancipation shall be adopted by Missouri, and believing as I do, that gradual can be made better than immediate for both black and white, except when military necessity changes the case, my impulse is to say that such protection would be given. I can not know exactly what shape an act of emancipation may take. If the period from the initiation to the final end, should be comparatively short, and the act should prevent persons being sold, during that period, into more lasting slavery, the whole would be easier. I do not wish to pledge the general government to the affirmative support of even temporary slavery, beyond what can be fairly claimed under the constitution. I suppose, however, this is not desired; but that it is desired for the Military force of the United States, while in Missouri, to not be used in subverting the temporarily reserved legal rights in slaves during the progress of emancipation. This I would desire also. I have very earnestly urged the slave-states to adopt emancipation; and it ought to be, and is an object with me not to overthrow, or thwart what any of them may in good faith do, to that end. You are therefore authorized to act in the spirit of this letter, in conjunction with what may appear to be the military necessities of your Department. Although this letter will become public at some time, it is not intended to be made so now. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 22, 1863.
Do you not remember the french officer, Col. Duffie, whom we saw at Gen. McDowell's Head Quarters near Fredericksburg, last May a year ago? I rem[em]ber he was then well spoken of. On the night of the 17th. Ist. he was surrounded by Stuart's cavalry near Millersburg, and cut his way out with proportionate heavy loss to his then small command. Please see and hear him. I think you have strong recommendations on file in his behalf. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
[c. June 23, 1863]
Sentence commuted to imprisonment at hard labor during the war. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., June 23, 1863.
My dear Sir: You remember that Hon. W.D. Kelley and others are engaged in raising or trying to raise some colored regiments in Philadelphia. The bearer of this, Wilton M. Herpert [Milton L. Hupert?], is a friend of Judge Kelley as appears by the letter of the latter. He is a private in the 112th Penn. and has been disappointed in a reasonable expectation of one of the smaller offices. He now wants to be a Lieutenant in one of the colored regiments. If Judge Kelley will say in writing he wishes to so have him, I am willing for him to be discharged from his present position and be so appointed. If you approve, so endorse and let him carry this letter to Kelley. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Stewart Van Vliet
Major Van Vliet. Washington, D.C., New. York June 23 1863
Have you any idea what the news is, in the despatches of Gen. Banks to Gen. Halleck? A. LINCOLN

To Darius N. Couch
Major Genl. Couch June 24. 1863.
Harrisburg, Pa. Have you any reports of the enemy moving into Pennsylvania? and if any, what? A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major Genl. Dix Washington York Town, Va [June 24---1863] [9 P.M.]
We have a despatch from Gen. Grant of the 19th. Dont think Kirby Smith took Miliken's Bend since, allowing time to get the news to Joe Johnston & from him to Richmond. But it is not absolutely impossible. Also have news from Banks to the 16th. I think. He had not run away then, nor thought of it. A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
[June 24, 1863]
Let Capt. Eagan be dishonorably dismissed the service in accordance with the recommendation of the Judge Advocate General. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please see the bearer, Mr. Lucky, who is introduced by the Sec. of State. A. LINCOLN June 24, 1863.

To Edward D. Townsend

Dr. Stipp is my old personal friend, and I shall be very glad if he can, consistently with the public service, be assigned as he desires. June 24, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Let a pardon be granted in this case on the ground that the party was used by the government as a witness, & testified fairly. June 25, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon.Secretary of Treasury: June 25, 1863.
My Dear Sir: Hon. William Kellogg will tell you plainly what he wants; and I wish him obliged so far as you can consistently do it. Please strain a point for him, if you do not have to strain it too far. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To John J. Peck
Gen. Peck Washington, D.C., Suffolk, Va June 25, 1863
Col. Derrom,  of the 25th. N---J. Vols, now mustered out, says there is a man in your hands, under conviction for desertion, who formerly belonged to the above named regiment, and whose name is Templeton---Isaac F. Templeton, I believe. The Colonel & others appeal to me for him. Please telegraph to me what is the condition of the case, & if he has not been executed send me the record of the trial & conviction. A LINCOLN

To Henry W. Slocum
Major General Slocum Washington, D.C., Leesburg, Va. June 25 1863
Was William Gruvier Co. A. 46th. Penn, one of the men executed as a deserter last Friday? A. LINCOLN

To Robert K. Stone
Dr. Stone Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 25, 1863.
Herewith is the note of Mrs.Stone to Mrs. L. You percieve I have put an endorsement upon it. By presenting the note and endorsement to the Sec. of War, he will oblige Mrs. S. as she requests. He already understands the case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
`` Cypher '' Major Gen.Burnside Washington, Cincinnati, O. June 26. 1863.
What is the case of `` Willie Waller '' at Maysville, Kentucky? A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
June 26, 1863
Sentence commuted to imprisonment at hard labor during the remainder of the war, in some military prison. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
June 26, 1863
Sentence commuted to loss of six months pay in accordance with the recommendation of Maj. Genl. Rosecrans. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
June 26, 1863
Sentence commuted to confinement at hard labor on government works during the war. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
June 26, 1863
Sentence commuted to imprisonment at hard labor for one year. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
June 26, 1863
Sentence commuted to imprisonment at hard labor during the war in accordance with the recommendation of the Judge Advocate General. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
June 26, 1863
Sentence commuted to forfeiture of six months pay in accordance with the recommendation of Maj. Genl. Rosecrans. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
June 26, 1863
Judge Advocate General please send me the record mentioned within. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Hooker
Washington, Major-General Hooker: June 27, 1863--- 8 a.m.
It did not come from the newspapers, nor did I believe it, but I wished to be entirely sure it was a falsehood. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I think the Secretary of War better let them have the clothes. June 28 , 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. J. T. Boyle Executive Mansion Cincinnati, O. Washington D.C. June 28, 1863
There is nothing going on in Kentucky on the subject of which you telegraph, except an enrolment. Before anything is done beyond this, I will take care to understand the case better than I now do. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major Gen. Burnside Executive Mansion, Cincinnati, O. Washington, June 28 1863. [9 A.M.]
There is nothing going on in Kentucky on the subject of which you telegraph, except an enrolment. Before anything is done beyond this, I will take care to understand the case better than I now do. A. LINCOLN

To Darius N. Couch
Major Gen. Couch Washington City, D.C. Harrisburgh. Pa. June 28---3/40 P.M. 1863
What news now? What are the enemy firing at four miles from your works? A. LINCOLN

To Robert C. Schenck
Major Gen. Schenck Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Md June 28 1863
Every place in the Naval School subject [to] my appointment, is full, and I have one unredeemed promise of more than half a year's standing. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I really think the within is worth considering. June 28. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Matthew Birchard and Others
Washington, D.C. June 29, 1863
Messrs M. Birchard David A Houk Geo. Bliss T. W. Bartley W. J. Gordon Jno. O'Neill C. A. White W. E. Finck Alexander Long J. W White Geo. H. Pendleton Geo L. Converse Warren P. Noble Jas. R. Morris W. A. Hutchins Abner L. Backus J. F. McKinney F. C. Le Blond Louis Schaefer Gentlemen: The resolutions of the Ohio Democratic State convention which you present me, together with your introductory and closing remarks, being in position and argument, mainly the same as the resolutions of the Democratic meeting at Albany, New-York, I refer you to my response to the latter, as meeting most of the points in the former. This response you evidently used in preparing your remarks, and I desire no more than that it be used with accuracy. In a single reading of your remarks I only discovered one inaccuracy in matter which I suppose you took from that paper. It is when you say ``The undersigned are unable to agree with you in the opinion you have expressed that the constitution is different in time of insurrection or invasion from what it is in time of peace & public security.'' A recurrence to the paper will show you that I have not expressed the opinion you suppose. I expressed the opinion that the constitution is different, in its application in cases of Rebellion or Invasion, involving the Public Safety, from what it is in times of profound peace and public security; and this opinion I adhere to, simply because, by the constitution itself, things may be done in the one case which may not be done in the other. I dislike to waste a word on a merely personal point; but I must respectfully assure you that you will find yourselves at fault should you ever seek for evidence to prove your assumption that I ``opposed, in discussions before the people, the policy of the Mexican war.'' You say ``Expunge from the constitution this limitation upon the power of congress to suspend the writ of Habeas corpus, and yet the other guarranties of personal liberty would remain unchanged'' Doubless if this clause of the constitution, improperly called, as I think, a limitation upon the power of congress, were expunged, the other guarranties would remain the same; but the question is, not how those guarranties would stand, with that clause out of the constitution, but how they stand with that clause remaining in it---in cases of Rebellion or Invasion, involving the public Safety. If the liberty could be indulged, of expunging that clause letter & spirit, I really think the constitutional argument would be with you. My general view on this question was stated in the Albany response, and hence I do not state it now. I only add that, as seems to me, the benefit of the writ of Habeas corpus, is the great means through which the guarranties of personal liberty are conserved, and made available in the last resort; and coroborative of this view, is the fact that Mr. V. in the very case in question, under the advice of able lawyers, saw not where else to go but to the Habeas Corpus. But by the constitution the benefit of the writ of Habeas corpus itself may be suspended when in cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it. You ask, in substance, whether I really claim that I may override all the guarrantied rights of individuals, on the plea of conserving the public safety---when I may choose to say the public safety requires it. This question, divested of the phraseology calculated to represent me as struggling for an arbitrary personal prerogative, is either simply a question who shall decide, or an affirmation that nobody shall decide, what the public safety does require, in cases of Rebellion or Invasion. The constitution contemplates the question as likely to occur for decision, but it does not expressly declare who is to decide it. By necessary implication, when Rebellion or Invasion comes, the decision is to be made, from time to time; and I think the man whom, for the time, the people have, under the constitution, made the commander-in-chief, of their Army and Navy, is the man who holds the power, and bears the responsibility of making it. If he uses the power justly, the same people will probably justify him; if he abuses it, he is in their hands, to be dealt with by all the modes they have reserved to themselves in the constitution. The  earnestness with which you insist that persons can only, in times of rebellion, be lawfully dealt with, in accordance with the rules for criminal trials and punishments in times of peace, induces me to add a word to what I said on that point, in the Albany response. You claim that men may, if they choose, embarrass those whose duty it is, to combat a giant rebellion, and then be dealt with in turn, only as if there was no rebellion. The constitution itself rejects this view. The military arrests and detentions, which have been made, including those of Mr. V. which are not different in principle from the others, have been for prevention , and not for punishment ---as injunctions to stay injury, as proceedings to keep the peace---and hence, like proceedings in such cases, and for like reasons, they have not been accompanied with indictments, or trials by juries, nor, in a single case by any punishment whatever, beyond what is purely incidental to the prevention. The original sentence of imprisonment in Mr. V.'s case, was to prevent injury to the Military service only, and the modification of it was made as a less disagreeable mode to him, of securing the same prevention. I am unable to perceive an insult to Ohio in the case of Mr. V. Quite surely nothing of the sort was or is intended. I was wholly unaware that Mr. V. was at the time of his arrest  a candidate for the democratic nomination for Governor until so informed by your reading to me the resolutions of the convention. I am grateful to the State of Ohio for many things, especially for the brave soldiers and officers she has given in the present national trial, to  the armies of the Union. You claim, as I understand, that according to my own position in the Albany response, Mr. V. should be released; and this because, as you claim, he has not damaged the military service, by discouraging enlistments, encouraging desertions, or otherwise; and that if he had, he should have been turned over to the civil authorities under recent acts of congress. I certainly do not know that Mr. V. has specifically, and by direct language, advised against enlistments, and in favor of desertion, and resistance to drafting. We all know that combinations, armed in some instances, to resist the arrest of deserters, began several months ago; that more recently the like has appeared in resistance to the enrolment preparatory to a draft; and that quite a number of assassinations have occurred from the same animus. These had to be met by military force, and this again has led to bloodshed and death. And now under a sense of responsibility more weighty and enduring than any which is merely official, I solemnly declare my belief that this hindrance, of the military, including maiming and murder, is due to the course in which Mr. V. has been engaged, in a greater degree than to any other cause; and is due to him personally, in a greater degree than to any other one man. These things have been notorious, known to all, and of course known to Mr. V. Perhaps I would not be wrong to say they originated with his special friends and adhereants. With perfect knowledge of them, he has frequently, if not constantly made speeches, in congress, and before popular assemblies; and if it can be shown that, with these things staring him, in the face, he has ever uttered a word of rebuke, or counsel against them, it will be a fact greatly in his favor with me, and one of which, as yet I, am totally ignorant. When it is known that that [ sic ] the whole burthen of his speeches has been to stir up men against the prossecution of the war, and that in the midst of resistance to it, he has not been known, in any instance, to counsel against such resistance, it is next to impossible to repel the inference that he has counselled directly in favor of it. With all this before their eyes the convention you represent have nominated Mr. V. for Governor of Ohio; and both they and you, have declared the purpose to sustain the national Union by all constitutional means. But, of course, they and you, in common, reserve to yourselves to decide what are constitutional means; and, unlike the Albany meeting, you omit to state, or intimate, that in your opinion, an army is a constitutional means of saving the Union against a rebellion; or even to intimate that you are conscious of an existing rebellion being in progress with the avowed object of destroying that very Union. At the same time your nominee for Governor, in whose behalf you appeal, is known to you, and to the world, to declare against the use of an army to suppress the rebellion. Your own attitude, therefore, encourages desertion, resistance to the draft and the like, because it teaches those who incline to desert, and to escape the draft, to believe it is your purpose to protect them, and to hope that you will become strong enough to do so. After a short personal intercourse with you gentlemen of the committee, I can not say I think you desire this effect to follow your attitude; but I assure you that both friends and enemies of the Union look upon it in this light. It is a substantial hope, and by consequence, a real strength to the enemy. If it is a false hope, and one which you would willingly dispel, I will make the way exceedingly easy. I send you duplicates of this letter, in order that you, or a majority of you, may if you choose, indorse your names upon one of them, and return it thus indorsed to me, with the understanding that those signing, are thereby committed to the following propositions, and to nothing else. 1. That there is now a rebellion in the United States, the object and tendency of which is to destroy the national Union; and that in your opinion, an army and navy are constitutional means for suppressing that rebellion. 2. That no one of you will do any thing which in his own judgment, will tend to hinder the increase, or favor the decrease, or lessen the efficiency of the army or navy, while engaged in the effort to suppress that rebellion; and, 3. That each of you will, in his sphere, do all he can to have the officers, soldiers, and seamen of the army and navy, while engaged in the effort to suppress the rebellion, paid, fed, clad, and otherwise well provided and supported. And with the further understanding that upon receiving the letter and names thus indorsed, I will cause them to be published, which publication shall be within itself, a revocation of the order in relation to Mr. V.  It will not escape observation that I consent to the release of Mr. V. upon terms, not embracing any pledge from him, or from others as to what he will, or will not do. I do this because he is not present to speak for himself, or to authorize others to speak for him; and because I should expect that on his returning, he would not put himself practically in antagonism with the position of his friends. But I do it chiefly because I thereby preval on other influential gentlemen of Ohio to so define their position, as to be of immense value to the Army---thus more than compensating for the consequences of any mistake in allowing Mr. V. to return; and so that, on the whole, the public safety will not have suffered by it. Still, in regard to Mr. V. and all others, I must hereafter as heretofore, do so much as the public safety may seem to require. I  have the honor to be respectfully yours, &c., A. LINCOLN.

To William Kellogg
Hon. Wm. Kellogg. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, June 29. 1863.
I have received, and read, your pencil note. I think you do not know how embarrassing your request is. Few things are so troublesome to the government as the fierceness with which the profits of trading in cotten are sought. The temptation is so great that nearly every body wishes to be in it; and when in, the question of profit controls all, regardless of whether the cotten seller is loyal or rebel, or whether he is paid in corn-meal or gun-powder. The officers of the army, in numerous instances, are believed to connive and share the profits, and thus the army itself is diverted from fighting the rebels to speculating in cotten; and steam-boats and wagons in the pay of the government, are set to gathering and carrying cotten, and the soldiers to loading cotten-trains and guarding them. The matter deeply affects the Treasury and War Departments, and has been discussed again and again in the cabinet. What can, and what can not be done, has, for the time been settled, and it seems to me I can not safely break over it. I know it is thought that one case is not much, but how can I favor one and deny another. One case can not be kept a secret. The authority given would be utterly ineffectual until it is shown; and when shown, every body knows of it. The administration would do for you as much as for any other man; and I personally would do some more than for most others; but really I can not involve myself and the Government as this would do. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Robert H. Milroy
PRIVATE  Major General Milroy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, June 29. 1863.
Your letters to Mr. Blair  and to myself, are handed to me by him. I have never doubted your courage and devotion to the cause. But you have just lost a Division, and prima facie the fault is upon you; and while that remains unchanged, for me to put you in command again, is to justly subject me to the charge of having put you there on purpose to have you lose another. If I knew facts sufficient to satisfy me that you were not in fault, or error, the case would be different. But the facts I do know, while they are not at all conclusive, and I hope they may never prove so, tend the other way. First, I have scarcely seen anything from you at any time, that did not contain imputations against your superiors, and a chafing against acting the part they had assigned you. You have constantly urged the idea that you were persecuted because you did not come from West-Point, and you repeat it in these letters. This, my dear general, is I fear, the rock on which you have split. In the Winchester case, you were under General Schenck, and he under Gen. Halleck. I know by Gen. Hallecks order-book, that he, on the 11th. of June advised Gen. Schenck to call you in from Winchester to Harper's Ferry; and I have been told, but do not know, that Gen. Schenck gave you the order accordingly, on the same day---and I have been told, but do not know, that on receiving it, instead of obeying it, you sent by mail a written protest against obeying it, which did not reach him until you were actually beleagered at Winchester. I say I do not know this. You hate West-Point generally, and General Halleck particularly; but I do know that it is not his fault that you were at Winchester on the 13th. 14th. and morning of the 15th.---the days of your disaster. If Gen. Schenck gave the order on the 11th. as Gen. Halleck advised, it was an easy matter for you to have been off at least on the 12th. The case is inevitably between Gen. Schenck & you. Neither Gen. Halleck, nor any one else, so far as I know, required you to stay and fight 60,000, with 6,000, as you insinuate. I know Gen. Halleck, through Gen. Schenck required you to get away, & that in abundant time for you to have done it. Gen. Schenck is not a West-Pointer & has no prejudice against you on that score. Yours very truly A. Lincoln

To Edwin M. Stanton
June 29, 1863
The Sec. of War will please let him be discharged.

To Darius N. Couch
Major Gen. Couch Washington D.C. Harrisburg, Penn. June 30. 1863 3/25 PM
I judge by absence of news that the enemy is not crossing, or pressing up to the Susquehannah. Please tell me what you know of his movements. A. LINCOLN

To David Hunter
Executive Mansion, My Dear General Washington, 30 June, 1863.
I have just received your letter dated the 25th of June. I assure you, and you may feel authorized in stating, that the recent change of commanders in the Department of the South was made for no reasons which convey any imputation upon your known energy, efficiency and patriotism; but for causes which seemed to me sufficient, while they were in no degree incompatible with the respect and esteem in which I have always held you, as a man and an officer. I cannot, by giving my consent to a publication of whose details I know nothing, assume the responsibility of whatever you may write. In this matter your own sense of military propriety must be your guide, and the regulations of the service your rule of conduct. I am very truly Your Friend A. LINCOLN Major General Hunter

To Alexander K. McClure
A. K. McClure Washington City, Philadelphia June 30 1863
Do we gain anything by opening one leak to stop another? Do we gain any thing by quieting one clamor, merely to open another, and probably a larger one? A. LINCOLN

To Joel Parker
Gov. Parker Executive Mansion, Trenton, N.J. Washington, June 30, 1863.
Your despatch of yesterday received. I really think the attitude of the enemies' army in Pennsylvania, presents us the best opportunity we have had since the war began. I think you will not see the foe in New-Jersey. I beg you to be assured that no one out of my position can know so well as if he were in it, the difficulties and involvements of replacing Gen. McClellan in command---and this aside from any imputations upon him. Please accept my sincere thanks for what you have done, and are doing to get troops forward. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton and Henry W. Halleck

Submitted to the Sec. of War & Gen-in-chief, with my consent to the proposition. A. LINCOLN June 30. 1863.

Appointment of William H. Jones
Washington, July 1st. 1863
Wm. Hemphill Jones, is hereby appointed to discharge the duties of First Comptroller of the Treasury, during the absence of R. W. Tayler, the Comptroller. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Benjamin B. French
Major B. B. French. Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Washington, July 1st. 1863.
I have just been to the Secretary of War with Dr. Stewart's case. He says that scarsely any case has been so fully heard on both sides, and that he is not clearer of the correctness of any decision made. Of course I can over rule his decision if I will, but I cannot well administer the War Department independent of the Secretary of War. Besides on a one sided presentation made to me as this is, I have no confidence that my decision would be more correct than the one already made. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 2. 1863.
I wish you would allow the Republican (my paper as you jokingly call it), to be paid for advertising. The non-payment is made a source of trouble to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
War Department, Washington, D.C., Major-General Burnside, Cincinnati, Ohio: July 3, 1863.
Private Downey, of the Twentieth or Twenty-sixth Kentucky Infantry, is said to have been sentenced to be shot for desertion today. If so, respite the execution until I can see the record. A. LINCOLN.

To William A. Hammond
July 3, 1863
Submitted to the Surgeon General, with the request that he will report to me any contemplated action of his in the premises & his reasons. A. LINCOLN July 3. 1863

To Robert T. Lincoln
Robert T. Lincoln Esq. Executive Mansion, Cambridge Mass. Washington, July 3rd. 1863.
Dont be uneasy. Your mother very slightly hurt by her fall. A. L. Please send at once

Announcement of News From Gettysburg
Washington City, July 4, 10.A.M. 1863
The President announces to the country that news from the Army of the Potomac, up to 10 p.m. of the 3rd. is such as to cover that Army with the highest honor, to promise a great success to the cause of the Union, and to claim the condolence of all for the many gallant fallen. And that for this, he especially desires that on this day, He whose will, not ours, should ever be done, be everywhere remembered and reverenced with profoundest gratitude. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Samuel P. Lee
Rr. Adml. Navy Department S. P. Lee. Washington, D.C. July  1863
Your despatch transmitting a note from Mr. Alexander H. Stephens has been received. You will not permit Mr. Stephens to proceed to Washington, or to pass the blockade. He does not make known the subjects to which the communication in writing from Mr. Davis relates, which he bears, and seeks to deliver in person to the President, and upon which he desires to confer. Those subjects can only be Military, or not Military, or partly both. Whatever may be military will be readily received, if offered through the well understood Military channel. Of course nothing else, will be received by the President, when offered, as in this case, in terms assuming the independence of the so-called Confederate States; and anything will be received and carefully considered by him, when offered by any influential person or persons, in terms not assuming the independence of the so-called Confederate States.

To Samuel P. Lee
War Department, Washington, D.C., July 4, 1863.
Rear-Admiral S. P. Lee: The request of A. H. Stephens is inadmissible. The customary agents and channels are adequate for all needful communication and conference between the United States forces and the insurgents. A. LINCOLN.

To Robert C. Schenck
Major Gen. Schenck. Washington, D.C., Baltimore Md July 4. 9./20 1863
Your despatches about negro regiment are not uninteresting or unnoticed by us, but we have not been quite ready to respond. You will have an answer to-morrow. A. LINCOLN

To William H. French
Major Genl. French Washington, D.C., Frederick Town, Md. July 5. 1863
I see your despatch about destruction of Pontoons. Can not the enemy ford the river? A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Soldiers' Home, [Washington,] July 6, 1863--- 7 p.m.
Major-General Halleck: I left the telegraph office a good deal dissatisfied. You know I did not like the phrase, in Orders, No. 68, I believe, ``Drive the invaders from our soil.'' Since that, I see a dispatch from General French, saying the enemy is crossing his wounded over the river in flats, without saying why he does not stop it, or even intimating a thought that it ought to be stopped. Still later, another dispatch from General Pleasonton, by direction of General Meade, to General French, stating that the main army is halted because it is believed the rebels are concentrating ``on the road toward Hagerstown, beyond Fairfield,'' and is not to move until it is ascertained that the rebels intend to evacuate Cumberland Valley. These things all appear to me to be connected with a purpose to cover Baltimore and Washington, and to get the enemy across the river again without a further collision, and they do not appear connected with a purpose to prevent his crossing and to destroy him. I do fear the former purpose is acted upon and the latter is rejected. If you are satisfied the latter purpose is entertained and is judiciously pursued, I am content. If you are not so satisfied, please look to it. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Jesse K. Dubois and Others
J.K. Dubois & others Washington, D.C. Springfield, Ills. July 7. 1863
An appointment of Chesley at Danville had already been made and gone forward, for Enrolment Comr. of 7th. Dist. when your Despatch arrived. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Major-General Halleck: [July 7, 1863]
We have certain information that Vicksburg surrendered to General Grant on the 4th of July. Now, if General Meade can complete his work, so gloriously prosecuted thus far, by the literal or substantial destruction of Lee's army, the rebellion will be over. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN.

Response to a Serenade
July 7, 1863
Fellow-citizens: I am very glad indeed to see you to-night, and yet I will not say I thank you for this call, but I do most sincerely thank Almighty God for the occasion on which you have called. [Cheers.] How long ago is it?---eighty odd years---since on the Fourth of July for the first time in the history of the world a nation by its representatives, assembled and declared as a self-evident truth that ``all men are created equal.'' [Cheers.] That was the birthday of the United States of America. Since then the Fourth of July has had several peculiar recognitions. The two most distinguished men in the framing and support of the Declaration were Thomas Jefferson and John Adams---the one having penned it and the other sustained it the most forcibly in debate---the only two of the fifty-five who sustained [signed?]  it being elected President of the United States. Precisely fifty years after they put their hands to the paper it pleased Almighty God to take both from the stage of action. This was indeed an extraordinary and remarkable event in our history. Another President, five years after, was called from this stage of existence on the same day and month of the year; and now, on this last Fourth of July just passed, when we have a gigantic Rebellion, at the bottom of which is an effort to overthrow the principle that all men were [are?]  created equal, we have the surrender of a most powerful position and army on that very day, [cheers] and not only so, but in a succession of battles in Pennsylvania, near to us, through three days, so rapidly fought that they might be called one great battle on the 1st, 2d and 3d of the month of July; and on the 4th the cohorts of those who opposed the declaration that all men are created equal, ``turned tail'' and run. [Long and continued cheers.] Gentlemen, this is a glorious theme, and the occasion for a speech, but I am not prepared to make one worthy of the occasion. I would like to speak in terms of praise due to the many brave officers and soldiers who have fought in the cause of the Union and liberties of the country from the beginning of the war. There  are trying occasions, not only  in success, but for the want of success. I dislike to mention the name of one single officer lest I might do wrong to those I might forget. Recent events bring up glorious names, and particularly prominent ones, but these I will not mention. Having said this much, I will now take the music.

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Sec. of the Navy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, July 7, 1863.
The gentlemen named in the attached resolution, have presented it to me this morning. It explains itself. Please carefully consider the subject, and do the best in regard to it which you can consistently with the general public service. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Frederick F. Low
Hon. F. F. Low. Washington, D.C., San Francisco. Cal. July 8 1863
There is no doubt that Gen. Meade, now commanding the Army of the Potomac, beat Lee, at Gettysburg, Pa. at the end of a three days battle; and that the latter is now crossing the Potomac at Williamsport, over the swolen stream & with poor means of crossing, and closely pressed by Meade. We also have despatches rendering it entirely certain that Vicksburg surrendered to Gen. Grant on the glorious old 4th. A. LINCOLN

To E. Delafield Smith
E. Delafield Smith Washington, D.C., New-York July 8 1863
Your kind despatch, on behalf of self and friends, is gratefully received. Capture of Vicksburg confirmed by despatch from Gen. Grant himself. A. LINCOLN

To Lorenzo Thomas
Gen. Thomas Washington, D.C., Harrisburg, Penn. July 8 1863
Your despatch of this morning to the Sec. of War is before me. The forces you speak of, will be of no immagineable service, if they can not go forward with a little more expedition. Lee is now passing the Potomac faster than the forces you mention are passing Carlyle. Forces now beyon[d] Carlyle, to be joined by regiments still at Harrisburg, and the united force again to join Pierce somewhere, and the whole to move down the Cumberland Valley, will, in my unprofessional opinion, be quite as likely to capture the Man- -in- -the- -Moon, as any part of Lee's Army A. LINCOLN

To Leonard Swett and Frederick F. Low
Hon. Leonard Swett, & Washington City, D. C. Hon. F. F Low. July 9. 1863
San Francisco, Cal. Consult together, and do not have a riot, or great difficulty about delivering possession A. LINCOLN

To Daniel E. Sickles
My dear General, Washington, July 10, 1863.
I understand you are troubled with some report that the 3rd Corps has sustained a disaster, or repulse. I can only say that I have watched closely, and believe I have seen all the despatches at the Military Telegraph Office up to a half hour ago, one from Ingalls, with the Army, reaching here since this morning, and I have heard of no such disaster or repulse. I add that I do not believe there has been any such. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN. Maj. Gen. Sickles.

To Jesse K. Dubois
Hon. J. K. Dubois Washington City, D. C. Springfield, Ills--- July 11 1863
It is certain that after three days fighting at Gettysburg, Lee withdrew and made for the Potomac; that he found the river so swolen as to prevent his crossing, that he is still this side near Hagerstown and Williamsport, preparing to defend himself; and that Meade is close upon him preparing to attack him, heavy skirmishing having occurred nearly all day yesterday. I am more than satisfied with what has happened North of the Potomac so far, and am anxious and hopeful for what is to come. A. LINCOLN

To Robert T. Lincoln
R. T. Lincoln Executive Mansion, New- -York Fifth Ave. Hotel Washington, July 11 1863.
Come to Washington A. LINCOLN

To Robert C. Schenck
Major General Schenck Washington City, D. C. Baltimore, Md July 11. 1863
How many rebel prisoners, captured within Maryland & Pennsylvania, have reached Baltimore within this month of July? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Secretary of War. July 11, 1863.
Please allow the bearer Mr. D. M. Leatherman, to take with him from the prison at Alton, Ill., his brother, J. A. Leatherman to his home at Memphis, Tenn. upon the honor of both that he will remain at Memphis, until further permission to leave. The latter resides near Murfreesboro, and was arrested and sent away by Gen. Rosecrans police for disloyalty. He has not been in the army. His brother who will take charge of him, is abundantly vouched as a Union man and honorable gentleman, by Gen. Hurlbut and many others. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I submit the within to the Sec. of War for action, with an impression, that the suggestion of Gen. Cameron may be right. July 11. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To George Wright
July 11, 1863
I desire military protection, when needed, to be given to Arazona, so far as it can be given consistently with the general military service A. LINCOLN July 11. 1863.

To Robert C. Schenck
`` Cypher '' Major Genl. Schenck Washington, D. C., Baltimore, Md. July 12 1863
You seem to misunderstand the nature of the objection to Gen. Tremble's going to Baltimore. His going there is opposed to prevent his meeting his traitorous associates there. A LINCOLN

To Henry T. Blow
War Department, Washington, July 13, 1863.
Hon. H. T. Blow, St. Louis, Mo.: I saw your dispatch to the Secretary of War. The publication of a letter without the leave of the writer or the receiver I think cannot be justified, but in this case I do not think it of sufficient consequence to justify an arrest; and again, the arrest being, through a parole, merely nominal, does not deserve the importance sought to be attached to it. Cannot this small matter be dropped on both sides without further difficulty? A. LINCOLN.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Major General Grant Executive Mansion, My dear General Washington, July 13, 1863.
I do not remember that you and I ever met personally. I write this now as a grateful acknowledgment for the almost inestimable service you have done the country. I wish to say a word further. When you first reached the vicinity of Vicksburg, I thought you should do, what you finally did---march the troops across the neck, run the batteries with the transports, and thus go below; and I never had any faith, except a general hope that you knew better than I, that the Yazoo Pass expedition, and the like, could succeed. When you got below, and took Port- -Gibson, Grand Gulf, and vicinity, I thought you should go down the river and join Gen. Banks; and when you turned Northward East of the Big Black, I feared it was a mistake. I now wish to make the personal acknowledgment that you were right, and I was wrong. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To John M. Schofield
Gen. Schofield Washington City, D. C. St. Louis, Mo. [July 13 1863]
I regret to learn of the arrest of the Democrat editor. I fear this loses you the middle position I desired you to occupy. I have not learned which of the two letters I wrote you, it was that the Democrat published; but I care very little for the publication of any letter I have written. Please spare me the trouble this is likely to bring A. LINCOLN

To Robert T. Lincoln
Robt. T. Lincoln Washington, D. C., New- -York. 5th. Av. Hotel--- July 14 1863
Why do I hear no more of you? A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major General Meade Washington, July 14, 1863.
I have just seen your despatch to Gen. Halleck, asking to be relieved of your command, because of a supposed censure of mine. I am very--- very ---grateful to you for the magnificient success you gave the cause of the country at Gettysburg; and I am sorry now to be the author of the slightest pain to you. But I was in such deep distress myself that I could not restrain some expression of it. I had been oppressed nearly ever since the battles at Gettysburg, by what appeared to be evidences that yourself, and Gen. Couch, and Gen. Smith,  were not seeking a collision with the enemy, but were trying to get him across the river without another battle. What these evidences were, if you please, I hope to tell you at some time, when we shall both feel better. The case, summarily stated is this. You fought and beat the enemy at Gettysburg; and, of course, to say the least, his loss was as great as yours. He retreated; and you did not, as it seemed to me, pressingly pursue him; but a flood in the river detained him, till, by slow degrees, you were again upon him. You had at least twenty thousand veteran troops directly with you, and as many more raw ones within supporting distance, all in addition to those who fought with you at Gettysburg; while it was not possible that he had received a single recruit; and yet you stood and let the flood run down, bridges be built, and the enemy move away at his leisure, without attacking him. And Couch and Smith! The latter left Carlisle in time, upon all ordinary calculation, to have aided you in the last battle at Gettysburg; but he did not arrive. At the end of more than ten days, I believe twelve, under constant urging, he reached Hagerstown from Carlisle, which is not an inch over fiftyfive miles, if so much. And Couch's movement was very little different. Again, my dear general, I do not believe you appreciate the magnitude of the misfortune involved in Lee's escape. He was within your easy grasp, and to have closed upon him would, in connection with our other late successes, have ended the war. As it is, the war will be prolonged indefinitely. If you could not safely attack Lee last monday, how can you possibly do so South of the river, when you can take with you very few more than two thirds of the force you then had in hand? It would be unreasonable to expect, and I do not expect you can now effect much. Your golden opportunity is gone, and I am distressed immeasureably because of it. I beg you will not consider this a prossecution, or persecution of yourself. As you had learned that I was dissatisfied, I have thought it best to kindly tell you why.

To Robert C. Schenck
`` Cypher '' Majr. Genl. Schenck Washington D. C. Baltimore, Md. July 14. 1863
Mr. Jaquess is a very worthy gentleman; but I can have nothing to do, directly, or indirectly, with the matter he has in view. A. LINCOLN

To James O. Broadhead
J. O. Brodhead Washington City, St. Louis, Mo July 15. 1863
The effect on political position, of McKee's arrest, will not be relieved any, by it's not having been made with that purpose A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
`` Cypher '' Hon. Simon Cameron Washington City, Harrisburg, Penn. July 15, 1863.
Your despatch of yesterday received. Lee was already across the river when you sent it. I would give much to be relieved of the impression that Meade, Couch, Smith and all, since the battle at Gettysburg, have striven only to get Lee over the river without another fight. Please tell me, if you know, who was the one corps commander who was for fighting, in the council of War on Sunday- -night. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement on Letter of James R. Gilmore to Zebulon B. Vance
[July 15? 1863]
This letter has been written in my presence, has been read by me, and has my entire approval. A. L.

To Robert A. Maxwell
Robert A. Maxwell Washington, D. C., 1032. Chestnut St. Phil. July 15 1863
Your despatch of to- -day is received, but I do not understand it. A. LINCOLN

Proclamation of Thanksgiving
July 15, 1863
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. It has pleased Almighty God to hearken to the supplications and prayers of an afflicted people, and to vouchsafe to the army and the navy of the United States victories on land and on the sea so signal and so effective as to furnish reasonable grounds for augmented confidence that the Union of these States will be maintained, their constitution preserved, and their peace and prosperity permanently restored. But these victories have been accorded not without sacrifices of life, limb, health and liberty incurred by brave, loyal and patriotic citizens. Domestic affliction in every part of the country follows in the train of these fearful bereavements. It is meet and right to recognize and confess the presence of the Almighty Father and the power of His Hand equally in these triumphs and in these sorrows: Now, therefore, be it known that I do set apart Thursday the 6th. day of August next, to be observed as a day for National Thanksgiving, Praise and Prayer, and I invite the People of the United States to assemble on that occasion in their customary places of worship, and in the forms approved by their own consciences, render the homage due to the Divine Majesty, for the wonderful things he has done in the Nation's behalf, and invoke the influence of His Holy Spirit to subdue the anger, which has produced, and so long sustained a needless and cruel rebellion, to change the hearts of the insurgents, to guide the counsels of the Government with wisdom adequate to so great a national emergency, and to visit with tender care and consolation throughout the length and breadth of our land all those who, through the vicissitudes of marches, voyages, battles and sieges, have been brought to suffer in mind, body or estate, and finally to lead the whole nation, through the paths of repentance and submission to the Divine Will, back to the perfect enjoyment of Union and fraternal peace. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington, this fifteenth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-eighth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Leonard Swett
Hon. L. Swett. Washington City, San Francisco, Cal. July 15. 1863
Many persons are telegraphing me from California, begging me, for the peace, of the State, to suspend the military enforcement of the writ of possession, in the Almedan case, while you are the single one who urges the contrary. You know I would like to oblige you, but it seems to me my duty, in this case, is the other way. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I shall be glad for this promotion to be made, so soon as it can be consistently. A. LINCOLN July 16, 1863.

To James H. Lane
Hon J. H. Lane; Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 17, 1863.
Gov. Carney has not asked to [have]  Gen. Blunt removed, or interfered with in his Military operations. He has asked that he, the Governor, be allowed to commission officers for troops raised in Kansas, as other governors of loyal states do; and I think he is right in this. He has asked that Gen. Blunt shall not take persons charged with civil crimes, out of the hands of the courts, and turn them over to mobs to be hung;  and I think he is right in this also. He has asked that Gen. Ewing's Department be extended to include all Kansas; and I have not determined whether this is right or not.  Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 17. 1863.
It is proper, on principle, that the Governor of Kansas, should stand on the same ground as other loyal governors, in giving original commissions, and in filling vacancies, for troops raised in his state; and I wish him to be so placed at once, unless you know some substantial reason to the contrary Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt

Let him fight instead of being shot LINCOLN July 18. 1863.

To Joseph Holt

Sentence commuted according to the recommendation of Gen. Wool. A. LINCOLN July 18, 1863

To Joseph Holt
July 18, 1863
Sentence commuted to forfeiture of pay for three months A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Sentence commuted to forfeiture of pay for one month July 18, 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Sentence commuted to loss of one months pay A. LINCOLN July 18. 1863

To Joseph Holt

Sentence as to dismissal approved, remainder disapproved. July 18. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Sentence commuted to loss of pay for one month A. LINCOLN July 18, 1863

To Joseph Holt
July 18, 1863
Lieut. Scott is hereby dismissed the service. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Sentence commuted to loss of one months pay. A. LINCOLN July 18, 1863

To Oliver P. Morton
Gov. O. P. Morton Washington DC. Indianapolis. July 18. 1863.
What do you remember about the case of John O. Brown, convicted of mutinous conduct & sentenced to death? What do you desire about it? A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
July 20, 1863
Let Major Gilmer be dismissed, as recommended by Gen. Heintzleman. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Sentence disapproved, & prisoner to be held & treated as a prisoner of War. A. LINCOLN July 20. 1863.

To Joel Parker
His Excellency Executive Mansion, Joel Parker Washington, Gov. of New-Jersey. July 20. 1863.
Dear Sir Yours of the 15th. has been received, and considered by the Secretary of War and myself. I was pained to be informed this morning by the Provost-Marshal-General that New-Jersey is now behind twelve thousand irrespective of the draft. I did not have time to ascertain by what rule this was made out; and I shall be very glad if it shall, by any means, prove to be incorrect. He also tells me, that 8000 will be about the quota of New-Jersey on the first draft; and the Sec. of War says the first draft in that State would not be made for some time in any event. As every man obtained otherwise lessens the draft so much, and this may supersede it altogether, I hope you will push forward your volunteer regiments as fast as possible. It is a very delicate matter to postpone the draft in one State, because of the argument it furnishes others to have postponements also. If we could have a reason in, one case, which would be good if presented, in all cases, we could act upon it. I will thank you therefore to inform me if you can, by what day, at the earliest, you can promise to have ready to be mustered into the U.S. service, the 8000, men. If you can make a reliable promise (I mean one which you can rely on yourself) of this sort, it will be of great value, if the day is not too remote. I beg you to be assured I wish to avoid the difficulties you dread, as much as yourself. Your Obt. Servt. A LINCOLN

To John M. Schofield
Executive Mansion, My Dear General Washington, July 20th, 1863.
I have received and read your letter of the 14th of July. I think the suggestion you make, of discontinuing proceedings against Mr. McKee, a very proper one. While I admit that there is an apparent impropriety in the publication of the letter mentioned without my consent or yours, it is still a case where no evil could result, and which I am entirely willing to overlook. Yours truly To Gen Schofield A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
[c. July 20, 1863]
Secretary of War---Please see Mr. R. Green of Troy, N.Y. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas Carney
His Excellency Gov. Thos. Carney Executive Mansion, Topeka, Kansas. Washington, July 21. 1863.
Yours dated Pittsburgh, the 19 Inst. is received. The day after you were with me I wrote a note to the Sec. of War, asking him to place you on the same ground, with all other governors of loyal States as to the appointment of military officers. In reply to this he verbally told me, when I next met him, that he had never placed you on any other ground---that the forces in regard to which you and Gen. Blunt have a controversy, were raised on special authority from the War Department, given before you were governor, and that the officers were commissioned by him (the Sec. of War) according to the original authority; and that he never had required you to commission officers nominated by Gen. Blunt. The like of this has been done in some other States, as I remember. As to leaving no part of Kansas in Blunt's Department, the thing should not be hastily done. He, with his command, is now in the field South of Kansas; and while I do not know how much what you now desire, might interfere with his supplies, it is very certain that he can not now be interfering with you. It is my purpose to take care that he shall not any more, take persons charged with civil crimes, out of the custody of the courts and turn them over to mobs to be hanged. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
July 21, 1863
I know most of the gentlemen named within to be good and worthy gentlemen, and I shall be glad if the Secretary of the Treasury will see and hear one of them, Mr. Butler who will present this A. LINCOLN July 21. 1863

To Joseph Holt

Let the sentence of Sergeant Sutton be remitted A. LINCOLN July 21. 1863

To Charles E. Hovey
Gen Chas. E. Hovey. Executive Mansion Dear Sir: Washington July 21, 1863
I distinctly say that I will nominate you as a Brig. Genl. of Volunteers, if you will furnish me with Maj Gen W. T. Shermans written request to do so Yours Truly A. LINCOLN

To Oliver O. Howard
Executive Mansion, My dear General Howard Washington, July 21. 1863.
Your letter of the 18th. is received. I was deeply mortified by the escape of Lee across the Potomac, because the substantial destruction of his army would have ended the war, and because I believed, such destruction was perfectly easy---believed that Gen. Meade and his noble army had expended all the skill, and toil, and blood, up to the ripe harvest, and then let the crop go to waste. Perhaps my mortification was heightened because I had always believed---making my belief a hobby possibly---that the main rebel army going North of the Potomac, could never return, if well attended to; and because I was so greatly flattered in this belief, by the operations at Gettysburg. A few days having passed, I am now profoundly grateful for what was done, without criticism for what was not done. Gen. Meade has my confidence as a brave and skillful officer, and a true man. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, July 21. 1863.
I supose you can easily lay your hands upon copies of the Instructions of the Sec. of the Navy, on the subject we have in hand, & if you can please send them over to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 21, 1863.
I desire that a renewed and vigorous effort be made to raise colored forces along the shores of the Missippi. Please consult the General-in-Chief; and if it is perceived that any acceleration of the matter can be effected, let it be done. I think the evidence is nearly conclusive that Gen. Thomas is one of the best, if not the very best, instruments for this service. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton and Gideon Welles
July 21, 1863
I desire that the bill for the late instalments of the new powder be paid by the Sec. of War & Sec. of Navy on the same principle and at the same rate as former ones have been paid. July 21st. 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Secretary of the Navy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 21. 1863.
If you conveniently can send copies of all your general instructions to Naval commanders, for me to read and return, I shall be obliged. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Isaac Newton
July 22, 1863
I know not what the law is as to compensation of the Chief Chemest for the Agricultural Department; but I certainly think $2500, per year, is, on general principles, a moderate compensation for the services of one having Dr. Wetherill's high scientific reputation. July 22. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To John M. Schofield
Major General Schofield Executive Mansion, Washington, St. Louis, Mo. July 22. 1863. [10:45 A.M.]
The following despatch has been placed in my hands. Please look to the subject of it. A. LINCOLN. Lexington, Mo., July 21, 1863. Hon. S. C. Pomeroy: Under Orders, No. 63, the sheriff is arresting slaves of rebels inside our lines, and returning them in great numbers. Can he do it? Answer. GOULD. 

To William M. Cooper
Mr. Wm. M. Cooper Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Washington July 23, 1863
I have no doubt that what you did was done with the most worthy motives; and I therefore regret that you were treated with harsh language in regard to it. Still, I have as little doubt, that the interference of outsiders, generally does more harm than good. It breeds confusion, and with it, delays and neglect. You are conscious of having meant well, and therefore you should care no more about it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Hamilton R. Gamble
His Excellency Executive Mansion, H. R. Gamble Washington, July 23, 1863.
Sir My Private Secretary has just brought me a letter saying it is a very `` cross '' one from you, about mine to Gen. Schofield, recently published in the Democrat. As I am trying to preserve my own temper, by avoiding irritants, so far as practicable, I have declined to read the cross letter. I think fit to say, however, that when I wrote the letter to Gen. Schofield, I was totally unconscious of any malice, or disrespect towards you, or of using any expression which should offend you, if seen by you. I have not seen the document in the Democrat, and therefore can not say whether it is a correct copy. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To Robert C. Schenck
Private Major General Schenck Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 23, 1863.
Returning to the Executive Room yesterday, I was mortified to find you were gone, leaving no word of explanation. I went down stairs, as I understood, on a perfect understanding with you that you would remain till my return. I got this impression distinctly from ``Edward''  whom I believe you know. Possibly I misunderstood him. I had been very unwell in the morning, and had scarcely tasted food during the day, till the time you saw me go down. I beg you will not believe I have treated you with intentional discourtesy. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery Blair
Hon. Post-Master-General Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, July 24, 1863.
Yesterday little indorsements of mine went to you in two cases of Post-Masterships sought for widows whose husbands have fallen in the battles of this war. These cases occurring on the same day, brought me to reflect more attentively than I had before done, as to what is fairly due from us here, in the dispensing of patronage, towards the men who, by fighting our battles, bear the chief burthen of saving our country. My conclusion is that, other claims and qualifications being equal, they have the better right; and this is especially applicable to the disabled soldier, and the deceased soldier's family. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major Genl. Burnside Washington, D.C., Cincinnati, O. July 24. 1863
What, if anything further do you hear from John Morgan? A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
July 24, 1863
Let execution of the persons within named be suspended until Gen. Meade can act upon the cases, who will dispose of them according to his judgement & discretion. A. LINCOLN July 24. 1863.

To Joel Parker
His Excellency Executive Mansion, Gov. Joel Parker, Washington, July 25. 1863.
Sir. Yours of the 21st. is received; and I have taken time, and considered and discussed the subject with the Secretary of War, and Provost-Marshall General, in order, if possible, to make you a more favorable answer than I finally find myself able to do. It is a vital point with us to not have a special stipulation with the Governor of any one State, because it would breed trouble in many, if not all other states; and my idea was, when I wrote you, as it still is, to get a point of time, to which we could wait, on the reason that we were not ready ourselves to proceed, and which might enable you to raise the quota of your state, in whole, or in large part, without the draft. The points of time you fix, are much further off than I had hoped. We might have got along in the way I have indicated for twenty, or possibly thirty days. As it stands, the best I can say is, that every volunteer you will present us within thirty days from this date, fit and ready to be mustered into the United States service, on the usual terms, shall be, pro-tanto - - an abatement of your quota of the draft. That quota I can now state at eight thousand, seven hundred and eighty three, (8783). No draft from New Jersey, other than for the above quota, will be made before an additional draft, common to the States, shall be required; and I may add, that if we get well through with this draft, I entertain a strong hope that any further one may never be needed. This expression of hope, however, must not be construed into a promise. As to conducting the draft by Townships. I find it would require such a waste of labor already done, and such an additional amount of it, and such a loss of time, as to make it, I fear, inadmissible. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN (Copy.) P.S. Since writing the above getting additional information, I am enabled to say that the draft may be made in sub-districts, as the enrollment has been made, or is in process of making. This will amount practically to drafting by townships as the enrollment subdistricts, are generally about the extent of townships AL

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Secretary of the Navy: Executive Mansion, Washington, Sir: July 25, 1863.
Certain matters have come to my notice, and considered by me, which induce me to believe, that it will conduce to the public interest for you to add to the general instructions given to our Naval Commanders, in relation to contraband trade, propositions substantially as follows, to wit: ``1st. You will avoid the reality, and as far as possible, the appearance, of using any neutral port, to watch neutral vessels, and then to dart out and seize them on their departure. ``Note---Complaint is made that this has been practiced at the Port of St. Thomas, which practice, if it exist, is disapproved, and must cease. ``2nd. You will not, in any case, detain the crew of a captured neutral vessel, or any other subject, of a neutral power on board such vessel, as prisoners of war, or otherwise, except the small number necessary as witnesses in the prize court. ``Note---The practice here forbidden is also charged to exist, which, if true, is disapproved, and must cease.'' My dear Sir, it is not intended to be insinuated that you have been remiss in the performance of the arduous and responsible duties of your Department, which I take pleasure in affirming has, in your hands, been conducted with admirable success. Yet while your subordinates are, almost of necessity, brought into angry collision with the subjects of foreign States, the representatives of those States and yourself do not come into immediate contact, for the purpose of keeping the peace, in spite of such collisions. At that point there is an ultimate, and heavy responsibility upon me. What I propose is in strict accordance with international law, and is therefore unobjectionable; while if it do no other good, it will contribute to sustain a considerable portion of the present British Ministry in their places, who, if displaced, are sure to be replaced by others more unfavorable to us. Your Obt. Servt. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside Washington, D.C., Cincinnati, O July 27 1863
Let me explain. In Gen. Grant's first despatch after the fall of Vicksburg, he said, among other things, he would send the Ninth Corps to you. Thinking it would be pleasant to you, I asked the Secretary of War to telegraph you the news. For some reason, never mentioned to us by Gen. Grant, they have not been sent, though we have seen out-side intimations that they took part in the expedition against Jackson. Gen. Grant is a copious worker, and fighter, but a very meagre writer, or telegrapher. No doubt he changed his purpose in regard to the Ninth Corps, for some sufficient reason, but has forgotten to notify us of it. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Private Executive Mansion, Major General Meade: Washington, July 27, 1863.
I have not thrown Gen. Hooker away; and therefore I would like to know whether, it would be agreeable to you, all things considered, for him to take a corps under you, if he himself is willing to do so. Write me, in perfect freedom, with the assurance that I will not subject you to any embarrassment, by making your letter, or its contents, known to any one. I wish to know your wishes before I decide whether to break the subject to him. Do not lean a hair's breadth against your own feelings, or your judgment of the public service, on the idea of gratifying me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Arthur H. Grimshaw
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 27. 1863.
To-day, my friend Jackson Grimshaw, and asks that his brother, Arthur H. Grimshaw, Col. of the 4th. Delaware Vols. may be a Brig-General. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 27, 1863.
Col. Charles F. Havelock has been mustered out of our service, as I suppose, in strict accordance with law, and the routine of the Department. With an imperfect understanding of this, he is deeply mortified by us, whose cause, I think, he has made some sacrifices to try to serve. Considering who he is, how he came here, and the apparantly abrupt, and, to Europeans, unusual mode of his dismissal, I think the order of dismissal as to him, better be revoked---allowing him his pay. If a reason is asked, place it on the ground of my order. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 27, 1863
Will the Sec. of War please glance over these papers, and inform me on what ground Dr. Phillips' nomination was withheld from the Senate, and what objection there is, if any, to his re-appointment? A. LINCOLN July 27. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Secretary of War please see & hear Mr. Ordway, of New-Hampshire. A. LINCOLN July 27. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let this appointment be made if no substantial reason to the contrary is known. A. LINCOLN July 27, 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton and Henry W. Halleck
[c. July 27, 1863]
I think the general object of the within is a very important one, while I can not speak as to particulars. I hope the Secretary of War & General-in-Chief will give it an attentive consideration. As the rebellion grows weaker, it will run more & more into guarrillaism, thus increasing the need for such a force as proposed A. LINCOLN

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Washington, New-York. July 28 1863
Bob went to Fort-Monroe & only got back to-day. Will start to you at 11. AM to-morrow. All well A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon Secretary of War Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Washington July 28 1863
A young son of the Senator Brown of Mississippi, not yet twenty, as I understand, was wounded, and made a prisoner at Gettysburg. His mother is sister [of] Mrs P. R. Fendall, of this city. Mr Fendall, on behalf of himself and family, asks that he and they may have charge of the boy, to cure him up, being responsible [for] his person and good behavior. Would it not be rather a grateful and graceful thing to let them have him? Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please have a pardon made out in this case. July 29, 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion, Major General Halleck: Washington, July 29, 1863.
Seeing Gen. Meade's despatch of yesterday to yourself, causes, me to fear that he supposes the government here is demanding of him to bring on a general engagement with Lee as soon as possible. I am claiming no such thing of him. In fact, my judgment is against it; which judgment, of course, I will yield if yours and his are the contrary. If he could not safely engage Lee at Williamsport, it seems absurd to suppose he can safely engage him now, when he has scarcely more than two thirds of the force he had at Williamsport, while it must be, that Lee has been re-inforced. True, I desired Gen. Meade to pursue Lee across the Potomac, hoping, as has proved true, that he would thereby clear the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, and get some advantages by harrassing him on his retreat. These being past, I am unwilling he should now get into a general engagement on the impression that we here are pressing him; and I shall be glad for you to so inform him, unless your own judgment is against it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, July 29, 1863
Can we not renew the effort to organize a force to go to Western Texas? Please consult with the General-in-Chief on the subject. If the Governor of New-Jersey shall furnish any new regiments, might not they be put into such an expedition. Please think of it. I believe no local object is now more desirable. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Secretary of War. Washington, D.C. July 29, 1863.
Dear Sir: I understand the Gov. of New Hampshire is anxious in regard to trouble about the draft, and desires that the 5th N.H. should be sent home on that account. The regiment is now here, going down the Potomac, somewhere, and contains, as I hear, only 115 men. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please respond, & give him the ``Inquiry'' July 29. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher

Send me an appointment according to the above A. LINCOLN July 29. 1863.

To Francis P. Blair, Sr.
Hon. F. P. Blair Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, July 30, 1863.
Yours of to-day with inclosure is received. Yesterday I commenced trying to get up an expedition for Texas. I shall do the best I can. Meantime I would like to know who is the great man Alexander, that talks so oracularly about ``if the president keeps his word'' and Banks not having ``capacity to run an omnibus on Broadway.'' How has this Alexander's immense light been obscured hitherto? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade: Washington, July 30, 1863.
Please suspend execution of Peter Schalowsky, Company B, Forty-fifth New York Regiment Volunteers, till further order and send me record of his conviction. A. LINCOLN.

Order of Retaliation
Executive Mansion, Washington D.C July 30. 1863
It is the duty of every government to give protection to its citizens, of whatever class, color, or condition, and especially to those who are duly organized as soldiers in the public service. The law of nations and the usages and customs of war as carried on by civilized powers, permit no distinction as to color in the treatment of prisoners of war as public enemies. To sell or enslave any captured person, on account of his color, and for no offence against the laws of war, is a relapse into barbarism and a crime against the civilization of the age. The government of the United States will give the same protection to all its soldiers, and if the enemy shall sell or enslave anyone because of his color, the offense shall be punished by retaliation upon the enemy's prisoners in our possession. It is therefore ordered that for every soldier of the United States killed in violation of the laws of war, a rebel soldier shall be executed; and for every one enslaved by the enemy or sold into slavery, a rebel soldier shall be placed at hard labor on the public works and continued at such labor until the other shall be released and receive the treatment due to a prisoner of war ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Frederick VII
July 31, 1863
Abraham Lincoln President of the United States of America. To His Majesty Frederick VII. King of Denmark Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 7th instant conveying the melancholy tidings of the demise on the 29th ultimo of His Royal Hig[h]ness the Hereditary Prince Frederick Ferdinand, of Denmark, Your Majesty's beloved Uncle. I participate in the grief occasioned by this sad event, and offer to Your Majesty and to Your Majesty's Royal Family my sincere condolence May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, 31st. July. 1863. By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
Executive Mansion, My dear General Hurlbut: Washington, July 31, 1863.
Your letter by Mr. Dana was duly received. I now learn that your resignation has reached the War Department. I also learn that an active command has been assigned you by Gen. Grant. The Secretary of War and Gen. Halleck are very partial to you, as you know I also am. We all wish you to re-consider the question of resigning; not that we would wish to retain you greatly against your wish and interest, but that your decision may be at least a very well considered one. I understand that Senator Sebastian  of Arkansas thinks of offering to resume his place in the Senate. Of course the Senate, and not I, would decide whether to admit or reject him. Still I should feel great interest in the question. It may be so presented as to be one of the very greatest national importance; and it may be otherwise so presented, as to be of no more than temporary personal consequence to him. The emancipation proclamation applies to Arkansas. I think it is valid in law, and will be so held by the courts. I think I shall not retract or repudiate it. Those who shall have tasted actual freedom I believe can never be slaves, or quasi slaves again. For the rest, I believe some plan, substantially being gradual emancipation, would be better for both white and black. The Missouri plan, recently adopted, I do not object to on account of the time for ending the institution; but I am sorry the beginning should have been postponed for seven years, leaving all that time to agitate for the repeal of the whole thing. It should begin at once, giving at least the new-born, a vested interest in freedom, which could not be taken away. If Senator Sebastian could come with something of this sort from Arkansas, I at least should take great interest in his case; and I believe a single individual will have scarcely done the world so great a service. See him, if you can, and read this to him; but charge him to not make it public for the present. Write me again. Yours very truly. A. LINCOLN

To Samuel W. Moulton
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, July 31, 1863.
There has been a good deal of complaint against you by your superior officers of the Provost Marshal General's Department and your removal has been strongly urged on the ground of ``persistent disobedience of orders and neglect of duty.'' Firmly convinced as I am of the patriotism of your motives, I am unwilling to do anything in your case which may seem unnecessarily harsh, or at variance with the feelings of personal respect and esteem, with which I have always regarded you. I consider your services in your district valuable, and should be sorry to lose them. It is unnecessary for me to state however, that when differences of opinion arise between officers of the Government, the ranking officer must be obeyed. You of course recognize as clearly as I do the importance of this rule. I hope you will conclude to go on in your present position under the regulations of the Department. I wish you would write to me. I am very truly your friend and Obt Servt [A. LINCOLN]

To James S. Rollins
Private Executive Mansion,
Hon. James S. Rollins Washington, August, 1863
Yours in reference to Gen. Sterling Price, is received. If he voluntarily returns and takes the oath of allegiance to the United States before the next meeting of Congress, I will pardon him, if you shall then wish me to do so. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George Stoneman
Executive Mansion, Gen. Stoneman. Washington, Aug. 1863.
I am appealed to in behalf of E. S. Doty, Co. A. 1st. Vermont Cavalry, whose friends do not know where he is but fear he has been executed, or is under sentence of death, somewhere, as a deserter. Records in these cases do not necessarily come, & in this case, none is here. Please ascertain, & inform me if you can, how the case stands. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Hiram Barney
Hon. Hiram Barney Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, August 1, 1863.
The bearer of this tells me he resides in your City, and has so resided for many years; that he has served for us in this war three months; that he has a son now a Colonel in the service under Gen. Corcoran, which son has served ever since the commencement of the war; that he also has a brother & a first cousin in the war. His name is Patrick Murphy, and he now seeks employment in the Custom-House. I shall be glad if you can find it for him. Yours truly A LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning William T. Smithson
August 1, 1863
The bearer of this says that William T. Smithson is imprisoned at the ``Old Capitol'' and has been indicted indicted [ sic ] in the District Court for treason. He asks to be turned over to the Civil Court according to a recent Act of Congress. Please consider the case & dispose of it according to law. A. LINCOLN Aug. 1, 1863.

To Horatio Seymour
`` Cypher '' Washington, D.C., His Excellency Gov. Seymour Aug. 1. 1863
Albany, N.Y. By what day may I expect your communication to reach me? Are you anxious about any part, except the City & vicinity? A. LINCOLN

To John G. Foster
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 3, 1863.
Major General Foster, or whoever may be in command of the Military Department, with Head Quarters at Fort-Monroe, Va. If Dr. Wright, on trial at Norfolk, has been, or shall be convicted, send me a transcript of his trial and conviction, and do not let execution be done upon him, until my further order. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of George T. Harris

As soon as I consistently can, I wish to oblige Bishop McIlvaine Aug. 3. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I believe the subject mentioned within deserves attention. Does the Sec. of War know to whom, or where, to refer it? A. LINCOLN Aug. 3. 1863.

To James H. Van Alen
Executive Mansion, My dear General Washington, August 3, 1863.
Your letter, without date, announcing your resignation, has been on my table some considerable time. I hope it may be a sufficient appology for not replying sooner, that it was not a business letter, requiring prompt attention; particularly as I am closely pressed with business matters. I am grateful for the Military service you have performed, which has been valuable to the country and honorable to yourself; and I regret the illness which has compelled you to discontinue it. I trust that illness, may speedily be superseded by renewed health, if, indeed, it has not already been. Since you wrote, as you anticipated, Port-Hudson has fallen. By that, and our other sucesses, I am greatly encouraged; still, we must not flag in our efforts, till the end shall be more clearly in view than it yet is Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John A. Bingham
Hon. John A. Bingham Executive Mansion Cadiz, Ohio. Washington D.C. Aug. 4. 1863
It is indispensable for us to have a judge at Key-West, as soon as possible. Please inform me whether you will go. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Charles J. Hoyt
August 4, 1863
The within recommendations seem ample; but as they do not allude to the reason of Major Hoyt's rejection by the Senate, they do not cover the whole ground. If any Senator will say to me in writing that he fully understands what caused his rejection, & that things are so changed that he now believes Major Hoyt would be confirmed, I should be disposed to re-nominate him & would do so if the service should then be in need of additional forces in the Pay Master Department. A. LINCOLN. August 4, 1863.

Memorandum: Pardon of Abraham Lower
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 4, 1863.
Let Abraham Lower, 72nd Regiment Pa Vols, now under arrest in Philadelphia for desertion be pardoned and discharged from the military service of the United States. A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Washington, My dear General Banks August 5, 1863.
Being a poor correspondent is the only apology I offer for not having sooner tendered my thanks for your very successful, and very valuable military operations this year. The final stroke in opening the Mississippi never should, and I think never will, be forgotten. Recent events in Mexico, I think, render early action in Texas more important than ever. I expect, however, the General-in-Chief, will address you more fully upon this subject.  Governor Boutwell read me to-day that part of your letter to him, which relates to Louisiana affairs. While I very well know what I would be glad for Louisiana to do, it is quite a different thing for me to assume direction of the matter. I would be glad for her to make a new Constitution recognizing the emancipation proclamation, and adopting emancipation in those parts of the state to which the proclamation does not apply. And while she is at it, I think it would not be objectionable for her to adopt some practical system by which the two races could gradually live themselves out of their old relation to each other, and both come out better prepared for the new. Education for young blacks should be included in the plan. After all, the power, or element, of ``contract'' may be sufficient for this probationary period; and, by it's simplicity, and flexibility, may be the better. As an anti-slavery man I have a motive to desire emancipation, which pro-slavery men do not have; but even they have strong enough reason to thus place themselves again under the shield of the Union; and to thus perpetually hedge against the recurrence of the scenes through which we are now passing. Gov. Shepley has informed me that Mr. Durant is now taking a registry, with a view to the election of a Constitutional convention in Louisiana. This, to me, appears proper. If such convention were to ask my views, I could present little else than what I now say to you. I think the thing should be pushed forward, so that if possible, it's mature work may reach here by the meeting of Congress. For my own part I think I shall not, in any event, retract the emancipation proclamation; nor, as executive, ever return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of that proclamation, or by any of the acts of Congress. If Louisiana shall send members to Congress, their admission to seats will depend, as you know, upon the respective Houses, and not upon the President. If these views can be of any advantage in giving shape, and impetus, to action there, I shall be glad for you to use them prudently for that object. Of course you will confer with intelligent and trusty citizens of the State, among whom I would suggest Messrs. Flanders, Hahn, and Durant; and to each of whom I now think I may send copies of this letter. Still it is perhaps better to not make the letter generally public. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN [ Endorsement ] Copies sent to Messrs. Flanders, Hahn & Durant, each indorsed as follows. The within is a copy of a letter to Gen. Banks. Please observe my directions to him. Do not mention the paragraph about Mexico. Aug. 6. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To the CincinnatiGazette
``Cypher'' Washington, D.C., Cincinnati Gazette: August 5. 1863
Please send me your present posting as to Kentucky election. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of William F. Smith

William F. Smith, City of New-York. Born April 12. 1846. His mother very much desires his appointment to West Point. August. 5. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Isaac Newton
Commissioner of Agriculture Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Aug. 5, 1863.
About a year ago Capt. Isaac R. Diller came to me with a proposition in regard to a new compound of gunpowder, the ingredients and mode of compounding, being a secret. It promised important advantages, which would be very valuable, if the promise were made good. But he did not wish to give the government the secret; nor did the government wish to buy it, without a test of it's value. For this object, the manufacture of a quantity of it became indispensable; and this again required the service of a good Chemist. Dr. Charles M. Wetherill, Chemist in your Department, was an acquaintance of Capt. Diller, and was sought by him to aid in the manufacturing of the powder. As I remember I requested you to allow him to do so, which you did. A small quantity was manufactured, and proved so far satisfactory that Capt. now, Admiral Dahlgren advised the making a larger quantity so as to test it for artillery use. I consented, and procured the Secretary of War and Secretary of the Navy, to advance, from time [to time], sums amounting in the whole to five thousand dollars, from funds under their discretionary control. Dr. Wetherill's service was again required, and again obtained, perhaps, so far as you are concerned, at my request. At the time, nothing was said, or thought of, so far as I remember, as to his receiving his salary at your Department, while engaged at the powder. Now, being brought to my mind, it seems reasonable he should receive his salary for that time, which he tells is refused. The manufacturer of the powder has required the building a good deal of expensive machinery, leaving the five thousand dollar fund no reliance for Dr. Wetherell. In fact, I suppose Capt. Diller thought the government was furnishing Dr. Wetherell, as one of it's officers, to make the experiment. Dr. Wetherell presents another question, which is as to the amount of his permanent or general Salary. I see that the law fixes the salaries of a class to which the chemist belongs ``corresponding to the salaries of similar officers in other Departments'' and I do not see that the law assigns me any duty or discretion about it. All I can do is to give a sort of legal opinion, that his salary should be fixed according to the law. I do wish these questions could be settled, without further difficulty. I do not know what has been fixed as the salary of similar officers in other Departments; but I suppose this can not be hard to ascertain. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Flanders
Hon B. F. Flanders. August 6, 1863
The within is a copy of a letter to Gen. Banks. Please observe my direction to him. Do not mention the paragraph about Mexico. Aug. 6. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Gilmore
Executive Mansion, Joseph A. Gilmore, Gov. N.H. Washington Aug. 7, 1863.
My dear Governor Gilmore: I thank you very heartily for your kind invitation to visit Concord, and especially for the exceedingly cordial terms in which you have conveyed it. I very much regret that I cannot at present accept it. I am by no means certain that I can leave Washington at all this summer. The exacting nature of my official duties renders it exceedingly improbable . I assure you however that I am none the less sincerely grateful for your kind intentions and for the expressions of personal good will contained in your letter. I am very truly yours, A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward
Sir, Executive Mansion August 7. 1863.
I hereby direct that the sum of $20.000.--- appropriated by the 10th Section of an act of Congress approved 3d March 1863, for expenses of carrying into effect the habeas corpus act of the same date, be placed on the books of the Treasury and held subject to your control. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Hon: William H. Seward. Secretary of State

To Horatio Seymour
His Excellency Gov. Seymour. Washington, D.C., Albany. N.Y. Aug. 7 1863
I send by first mail a letter, of which I now telegraph a copy. A. LINCOLN

To Horatio Seymour
His Excellency Horatio Seymour Executive Mansion, Governor of New-York Washington, August 7, 1863.
Your communication of the 3rd. Inst. has been received, and attentively considered. I can not consent to suspend the draft in New-York, as you request, because, among other reasons, time is too important. By the figures you send, which I presume are correct, the twelve Districts represented fall into two classes of eight, and four respectively. The disparity of the quotas for the draft, in these two classes is certainly very striking, being the difference between an average of 2200 in one class, and 4864 in the other. Assuming that the Districts are equal, one to another, in entire population, as required by the plan on which they were made, this disparity is such as to require attention. Much of it, however, I suppose will be accounted for by the fact that so many more persons fit for soldiers, are in the city than are in the country, who have too recently arrived from other parts of the United States and from Europe to be either included in the Census of 1860, or to have voted in 1862. Still, making due allowance for this, I am yet unwilling to stand upon it as an entirely sufficient explanation of the great disparity. I shall direct the draft to proceed in all the Districts, drawing however, at first, from each of the four Districts, towit: the second, fourth, sixth, and eighth, only 2200, being the average quota of the other class. After this drawing, these four Districts, and also the seventeenth and twentyninth, shall be carefully re-enrolled, and, if you please, agents of yours may witness every step of the process. Any deficiency which may appear by the new enrollment will be supplied by a special draft for that object, allowing due credit for volunteers who may be obtained from these Districts respectively, during the interval. And at all points, so far as consistent, with practical convenience, due credits will be given for volunteers; and your Excellency shall be notified of the time fixed for commencing a draft in each District. I do not object to abide a decision of the United States Supreme Court, or of the judges thereof, on the constitutionality of the draft law. In fact, I should be willing to facilitate the obtaining of it; but I can not consent to lose the time while it is being obtained. We are contending with an enemy who, as I understand, drives every able bodied man he can reach, into his ranks, very much as a butcher drives bullocks into a slaughter-pen. No time is wasted, no argument is used. This produces an army which will soon turn upon our now victorious soldiers already in the field, if they shall not be sustained by recruits, as they should be. It produces an army with a rapidity not to be matched on our side, if we first waste time to re-experiment with the volunteer system, already deemed by congress, and palpably, in fact, so far exhausted, as to be inadequate; and then more time, to obtain a court decision, as to whether a law is constitutional, which requires a part of those not now in the service, to go to the aid of those who are already in it; and still more time, to determine with absolute certainty, that we get those, who are to go, in the precisely legal proportion, to those who are not to go. My purpose is to be, in my action, just and constitutional; and yet practical, in performing the important duty, with which I am charged, of maintaining the unity, and the free principles of our common country. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Sir, Executive Mansion August 7. 1863.
I hereby direct that the sum of $80,000.---appropriated by the 10th. section of an act of Congress approved 3d March 1863, for expenses of carrying into effect the habeas corpus act of the same date, be placed on the books of the Treasury and held subject to your control. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Hon. E. M. Stanton Secretary of War.

To John G. Foster
Executive Mansion, August 8, 1863.
General Foster: This will be handed you by Governor Peirpoint of Virginia. He goes, among other things, seeking to adjust a difficulty at Norfolk and Portsmouth. It seems there is a large number of families in Portsmouth who are destitute and whose natural supporters are in the rebel army or have been killed in it. These destitute families must live somehow, and it seems the city authorities on one side, and our military on the other, are in ruinous conflict about the mode of providing. Governor Peirpoint is a good man, and if you will place him in conference and amicable relations with the military authority in the vicinity, I do not doubt that much good will come of it. Please do it. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 8, 1863.
My dear Wife. All as well as usual, and no particular trouble any way. I put the money into the Treasury at five per cent, with the previlege of withdrawing it any time upon thirty days' notice. I suppose you are glad to learn this. Tell dear Tad, poor ``Nanny Goat,'' is lost; and Mrs. Cuthbert & I are in distress about it. The day you left Nanny was found resting herself, and chewing her little cud, on the middle of Tad's bed. But now she's gone! The gardener kept complaining that she destroyed the flowers, till it was concluded to bring her down to the White House. This was done, and the second day she had disappeared, and has not been heard of since. This is the last we know of poor ``Nanny'' The weather continues dry, and excessively warm here. Nothing very important occurring. The election in Kentucky has gone very strongly right. Old Mr. Wickliffe  got ugly, as you know, ran for Governor, and is terribly beaten. Upon Mr. Crittendens death, Brutus Clay, Cassius' brother, was put on the track for Congress, and is largely elected. Mr. Menzies,  who, as we thought, behaved very badly last session of Congress, is largely beaten in the District opposite Cincinnati, by Green Clay Smith, Cassius Clay's nephew. But enough. Affectionately A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Sec. of War Washington, August 8. 1863.
Please look over the accompanying note addressed to Gen. Meade, and send it to him, unless you perceive some objection. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John M. Fleming and Robert Morrow
Messrs Jno. M. Fleming & Executive Mansion, Ro. Morrow. Washington, August 9, 1863.
Gentlemen: The petition of which you were the bearers, has just been handed me. Your cards and notes had come to me on two or three successive days before; and I knew then, as well as I do now, after reading the petition, what your mission was. I knew it was the same true, and painful story, which Gov. Johnson, Mr. Maynard, Dr. Clements and other have been telling me for more than two years. I also knew that meeting you could do no good; because I have all the while done, and shall continue to do the best for you I could, and can. I do as much for East Tennessee as I would, or could, if my own home, and family were in Knoxville. The difficulties of getting a Union army into that region, and of keeping it there, are so apparant,---so obvious---that none can fail to see them, unless it may be those who are driven mad and blind by their sufferings. Start by whatever route they may, their lines of supply are broken before they get half way. A small force, sufficient to beat the enemy now there, would be of no value, because the enemy would re-inforce to meet them, until we should have to give back, or accumulate so large a force, as to be very difficult to supply, and as to ruin us entirely if a great disaster should befal it. I know you are too much distressed to be argued with; and therefore I do not attempt it at length. You know I am not indifferent to your troubles; else I should not, more than a year and a half ago, have made the effort I did to have a Railroad built on purpose to relieve you. The Secretary of War, Gen. Halleck, Gen. Burnside, and Gen. Rosecrans are all engaged now in an effort to relieve your section. But remember, you will probably thwart them if you make this public.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, My dear General Grant: Washington, August 9, 1863.
I see by a despatch of yours that you incline quite strongly towards an expedition against Mobile. This would appear tempting to me also, were it not that in view of recent events in Mexico, I am greatly impressed with the importance of re-establishing the national authority in Western Texas as soon as possible. I am not making an order, however. That I leave, for the present at least, to the General-in-Chief. A word upon another subject. Gen. Thomas has gone again to the Mississippi Valley, with the view of raising colored troops. I have no reason to doubt that you are doing what you reasonably can upon the same subject. I believe it is a resource which, if vigorously applied now, will soon close the contest. It works doubly, weakening the enemy and strengthening us. We were not fully ripe for it until the river was opened. Now, I think at least a hundred thousand can, and ought to be rapidly organized along it's shores, relieving all the white troops to serve elsewhere. Mr. Dana understands you as believing that the emancipation proclamation has helped some in your military operations. I am very glad if this is so. Did you receive a short letter from me, dated the 13th. of July? Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Mrs. Rachel S. Evans
Executive Mansion, Dear Madam Washington,August 10, 1863.
I thank you very cordially for the beautifully-finished Cushion, received, through your courtesy, today. But grateful as I am, it must be your greatest satisfaction to reflect that the brave soldiers who reap the benefit of your compassionate kindness and liberality, are this day more grateful still. I am very truly Your Obt. Servt Mrs. Rachel S. Evans A. LINCOLN N.E. Cor. 11th & Vine

To Mrs. Hutter, Misses Lager, and Miss Claghorn
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 10, 1863.
Permit me to return my grateful acknowledgements to the fair manufacturer and generous donors of the beautiful present which accompanies their note of the 20th July. If anything could enhance to me the value of this representation of our national ensign. so elegantly executed and so gracefully bestowed, it would be the consideration that its price has been devoted to the comfort and restoration of those heroic men, who have suffered and bled in our flag's defense. We never should, and I am sure, never shall be niggard of gratitude and benefaction to the soldiers who have endured toil, privations and wounds, that the nation may live. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN. To Mrs Hutter Misses Lager Miss Claghorn

Memorandum:Appointment of Robert J. Sperry
August 10, 1863
At this date, I am under obligation to give the first appointment to the Naval School in my power, to John T. Grimsley, of Illinois, and no other commital must supersede this obligation. After saying this much, I add that I would be glad for the boy within named, to have another chance, if at all consistent with the service. Aug. 10. 1863. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Alexander C. Sands
August 10, 1863
After the report mentioned, was made, this case, including the report, was brought before me; and upon quite full hearing & consideration, my conclusion was that Mr. Sands is probably a rather disagreeable man, and that these charges made to get rid of him, are frivolous. Such is my present impression. A. LINCOLN Aug. 10. 1863

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion, My Dear General Rosecrans Washington, August 10, 1863.
Yours of the 1st was received two days ago. I think you must have inferred more than Gen Halleck has intended, as to any dissatisfaction of mine with you. I am sure you, as a reasonable man, would not have been wounded, could you have heard all my words and seen all my thoughts, in regard to you. I have not abated in my kind feeling for and confidence in you. I have seen most of your despatches to General Halleck---probably all of them. After Grant invested Vicksburg, I was very anxious lest Johnston should overwhelm him from the outside, and when it appeared certain that part of Bragg's force had gone, and was going to Johnston, it did seem to me, it was the exactly proper time for you to attack Bragg with what force he had left. In all kindness, let me say, it so seems to me yet. Finding from your despatches to General Halleck that your judgement was different, and being very anxious for Grant, I, on one occasion told Gen. Halleck, I thought he should direct you to decide at once, to immediately attack Bragg or to stand on the defensive, and send part of your force to Grant. He replied he had already so directed, in substance. Soon after, despatches from Grant abated my anxiety for him, and in proportion abated my anxiety about any movement of yours. When afterwards, however, I saw a despatch of yours arguing that the right time for you to attack Bragg was not before but would be after the fall of Vicksburg, it impressed me very strangely; and I think I so stated to the Secretary of War and General Halleck. It seemed no other than the proposition that you could better fight Bragg when Johnston should be at liberty to return and assist him, than you could before he could so return to his assistance. Since Grant has been entirely relieved by the fall of Vicksburg, by which Johnston is also relieved, it has seemed to me that your chance for a stroke, has been considerably diminished, and I have not been pressing you directly or indirectly. True, I am very anxious for East Tennessee to be occupied by us; but I see and appreciate the difficulties you mention. The question occurs, Can the thing be done at all? Does preparation advance at all? Do you not consume supplies as fast as you get them forward? Have you more animals today than you had at the battle of Stone River? and yet have not more been furnished you since then than your entire present stock? I ask the same questions as to your mounted force. Do not misunderstand. I am not casting blame upon you. I rather think, by great exertion, you can get to East Tennessee. But a very important question is, ``Can you stay there?'' I make no order in the case---that I leave to General Halleck and yourself. And now, be assured once more, that I think of you in all kindness and confidence: and that I am not watching you with an evileye. Yours very truly

To Robert C. Schenck
[c. August 10, 1863]
The officer in command in Baltimore is hereby directed to take no further steps in the case of the Rev'd Peyton Harrison until further order from me. A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward
Hon. Secretary of State. August 10, 1863
I have for a good while had this particular question under consideration; and my judgment [is] that the within, substantially, should be the answer to Lord Lyons. A. LINCOLN August 10, 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Aug. 10. 1863.
I have not heard of any charges being filed against Gen. J.A. McClernand. Are there any? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Check
No. 52 Washington, D.C. Aug. 11 1863 RIGGS & CO.
Pay to Colored man, with one leg. or bearer Five ..... Dollars $5/00. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Washington, My dear General Meade August 11, 1863.
Yesterday week I made known to Gen. Hooker our brief correspondence in regard to him. He seemed gratified with the kind spirit manifested by both of us; but said he was busy preparing a report, and would consider. Yesterday he called again and said he would accept the offer if it was still open; would go at once if you desire; but would prefer waiting till the first of September, unless there was to be a battle, or you desired him to come sooner. I told him I would write you. Please answer. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Horatio Seymour
His Excellency Executive Mansion Horatio Seymour Washington Governor of New-York. August 11 1863
Yours of the 8th. with Judge Advocate General Waterbury's report, was received to-day. Asking you to remember that I consider time as being very important, both to the general cause of the country, and to the soldiers already in the field, I beg to remind you that I waited, at your request, from the 1st till the 6th. Inst. to receive your communication dated the 3rd. In view of it's great length, and the known time, and apparant care, taken in it's preparation, I did not doubt that it contained your full case as you desired to present it. It contained figures for twelve Districts, omitting the other nineteen, as I supposed, because you found nothing to complain of, as to them. I answered accordingly. In doing so, I laid down the principle to which I purpose adhering---which is, to proceed with the draft, at the same time employing infallible means to avoid any great wrongs. With the communication received to-day, you send figures for twenty eight Districts, including the twelve sent before, and still omitting three, from which I suppose the enrolments are not yet received. In looking over this fuller list of twenty eight Districts, I find that the quotas for sixteen of them are above 2000 and below 2700, while, of the rest, six are above 2700 and six are below 2000. Applying the principle to these new facts, the 5th. and 7th. Districts must be added to the four in which the quotas have already been reduced to 2200 for the first draft; and, with these, four others must be added to those to be re-enrolled. The corrected case will then stand: The quotas of the 2nd. 4th. 5th. 6th. 7th. & 8th. Districts fixed at 2200. for the first draft. The Provost-Marshal-General informs me that the drawing is already completed in 16th. 17th. 18th. 22nd. 24th. 26th. 27th. 28th. 29th. & 30th. Districts. In the others, except the three outstanding, the drawing will be made upon the quotas as now fixed. After the first draft, the 2nd. 4th. 5th. 6th. 7th. 8th. 16th. 17th. 21st. 25th. 29th & 31st. Districts  will be re-enrolled for the purpose, and in the manner stated in my letter of the 7th. Inst. The same principle will be applied to the now outstanding Districts when they shall come in. No part of my former letter is repudiated, by reason of not being restated in this, or for any other cause. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please give Gen. Logan the extended leave asked for, unless you know a good reason to the contrary. A. LINCOLN Aug. 11. 1863.

To John A. McClernand
Major General McClernand: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, August 12, 1863.
Our friend, William G. Greene, has just presented a kind letter in regard to yourself, addressed to me by our other friends, Yates, Hatch, and Dubois. I doubt whether your present position is more painful to you than to myself. Grateful for the patriotic stand so early taken by you in this life-and-death struggle of the nation, I have done whatever has appeared practicable to advance you and the public interest together. No charges, with a view to a trial, have been preferred against you by any one; nor do I suppose any will be. All there is, so far as I have heard, is Gen. Grant's statement of his reasons for relieving you. And even this I have not seen or sought to see; because it is a case, as appears to me, in which I could do nothing without doing harm. Gen. Grant and yourself have been conspicuous in our most important successes; and for me to interfere, and thus magnify a breach between you, could not but be of evil effect. Better leave it where the law of the case has placed it. For me to force you back upon Gen. Grant, would be forcing him to resign. I can not give you a new command, because we have no forces except such as already have commanders. I am constantly pressed by those who scold before they think , or without thinking at all, to give commands respectively to Fremont, McClellan, Butler, Sigel, Curtis, Hunter, Hooker, and perhaps others; when, all else out of the way, I have no commands to give them. This is now your case, which, as I have before said, pains me, not less than it does you. My belief is that the permanent estimate of what a general does in the field, is fixed by the ``could of witnesses'' who have been with him in the field; and that relying on these, he who has the right needs not to fear. Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 12, .
Hon. Secretary of War: Mrs. Baird tells me that she is a widow; that her two sons and only support joined the army, where one of them still is; that her other son, Isaac P. Baird, is a private in the Seventy-second Pennsylvania Volunteers---Baxter's Fire Zouaves, Company K; that he is now under guard with his regiment on a charge of desertion; that he was under arrest for desertion, so that he could not take the benefit of returning under the proclamation on that subject. Please have it ascertained if this is correct, and if it is, let him be discharged from arrest and go to duty. I think, too, he should have his pay for duty actually performed. Loss of pay falls so hard upon poor families. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 12, 1863
Thinking there may be some importance in recalling this subject, which seems to have not been before the Sec. of War, I submit this to him A. LINCOLN Augt. 12. 1863.

To Gideon Welles

Will the Secretary of the Navy please send me the record of conviction in this case & any other information in his power.? Augt. 12. 1863. A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Judge Advocate General: Executive Mansion, Dear Sir; Washington, August 13. 1863.
Major Alexander Montgomery, who has been dismissed from the Regular Army, is now with me, and denies the charges upon which he was dismissed, and which he says he now, for the first time, has officially heard. As the principal charge, can be given the appearance at least of being merely personally offensive to me, and as he denies it, I think he should have a Court-Martial, rather than to abide my arbitrary dismissal. Please give him the Court-Martial if he desires it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Elizabeth J. Grimsley
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 14, 1863.
My dear Cousin Lizzie I have, by the law, two classes of appointments to make to the Naval-School---ten of each, to the year. The first class, according to the law, must be of families of the meritorious Naval-Officers; while the other class does not have such restriction. You see at once that if I have a vacancy in the first class, I can not appoint Johnny to it; and I have intended for months, and still intend, to appoint him to the very first vacancy I can get in the other class Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 14, 1863
The subscribers of this letter are most worthy & reliable gentlemen. They ask three things. 1st. That the City of Rock-Island, which is on the main land, Illinois side, may have consent of the U.S. to build a bridge across the Slough to Rock-Island, which Island belongs to the U.S. 2nd. That Capt. Ben. Harper be appointed Post-Quarter-Master; and William Baily Military Storekeeper. 3rd. That the Island be not thrown into a Military Department lying West of the River. I submit the whole to the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN Aug. 14. 1863.

To Robert Anderson
Executive Mansion, Washington, My dear General Anderson August 15, 1863.
I have been through the War Department this morning looking up your case. Section 20 of ``An act providing for the better Organization of the Military Establishment'' Approved August 3, 1861, seems to leave no discretion to President, Secretary of War, General-in-Chief, or any one else  . The General-in-Chief, however says that, if agreeable to you, he will give you command of Fort-Adams (I think) at New-Port, R.I. by which your pay will be the same as if this law did not exist. I advise you to try it, at all events. Gen. Halleck says it will require substantially no labor, or thought, whatever. Please telegraph whether you conclude to try it. And now, my dear General allow me to assure you that we here are all your sincere friends. Very truly A LINCOLN

Draft of a Communication to Stephen A. Hurlbut
Executive Mansion, Washington, [c.August 15?] 186
The within discusses a difficult subject---the most difficult with which we have to deal. The able bodied male contrabands are already employed by the Army. But the rest are in confusion and destitution. They better be set to digging their subsistence out of the ground. If there are plantations near you, on either side of the river, which are abandoned by their owners, first put as many contrabands on such, as they will hold---that is, as can draw subsistence from them. If some still remain, get loyal men, of character in the vicinity, to take them temporarily on wages, to be paid to the contrabands themselves---such men obliging themselves to not let the contrabands be kidnapped, or forcibly carried away. Of course, if any voluntarily make arrangements to work for their living, you will not hinder them. It is thought best to leave details to your discretion subject to the provisions of the acts of Congress & the orders of the War Department. By direction of the President.

Draft of Proclamation
[August 15, 1863?]
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, in the judgment of the President, it is necessary to use the military force in the State of New York in order to suppress existing unlawful combinations against the enforcement of the laws of the United States; Therefore, I Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby command all persons acting against the enforcement of said laws, to disperse, and return peaceably to their respective abodes, by, and before o'clock m. of this day. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. ( Seal ) Done at the City of Washington this day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-eighth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

Extension of Leave for Francis P. Blair, Jr.

The leave of absence for Major General Frank P.Blair Jr. and Staff is extended to the first day of October next A. LINCOLN August 15. 1863.

Extension of Leave for Martin D. Hardin

This leave of absence, as to Col. M.D. Hardin, is extended to the first of September next. A. LINCOLN Aug. 15. 1863

To John G. Foster
Major Genl. Foster Washington, D. C., Fort-Monroe, Va	Aug. 15 1863
I think you are right in placing ``little reliance in the report''; still the question is so interesting that I would like to know if the Capt. of the Hudson gave any particulars---how he got his news, and the like. Please answer. A LINCOLN

To Edward S. Sanford
Executive Mansion, To Sanford. Washington, [August 15], 186
Major General of Militia for the State of New York. Whereas by reason of unlawful combinations against the authority of the government of the United States, it has become impracticable, in my judgment to enforce, by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, the laws of the United States, within therefore I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do call forth yourself and your command, as part of the Militia of the State of New-York, to aid in suppressing said combinations and opposition to said laws; and I do order and direct that, for this object, you report forthwith to Major General John A. Dix. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Horatio Seymour
His Excellency Executive Mansion, Horatio Seymour	Washington, Governor of the State of New-York. [August 15,] 1863
Whereas, by reason of unlawful combinations against the authority of the Government of the United States, it has become impracticable, in my judgment, to enforce, by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings, the laws of the United States, within therefore: I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do call forth the Militia of the State of New-York, to aid in suppressing said combinations and opposition to said laws. And I do respectfully request, and direct that, for this purpose, your Excellency do forthwith order Major General Sanford, with his command, to report for orders to Major General John A. Dix. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Horatio Seymour
Governor Seymour Executive Mansion, New-York: Washington, August 16, 1863.
Your despatch of this morning is just received; and, I, fear I do not perfectly understand it. My view of, the principle is that every soldier obtained voluntarily, leaves one less to be obtained by draft. The only difficulty is, in applying the principle properly. Looking to time , as heretofore I am unwilling to give up a drafted man now , even for the certainty , much less for the mere chance , of getting a volunteer hereafter . Again, after the draft in any District would it not make trouble to take any drafted man out and put a volunteer in; for how shall it be determined, which drafted man is to have, the previlege of thus going out, to the exclusion of all the others? And even before the draft in any District the quota must be fixed; and the draft might be postponed indefinitely, if every time a volunteer is offered the officers must stop and reconstruct the quota. At least I fear there might be this difficulty; but, at all events let credits for volunteers be given up to the last moment, which will not produce confusion or delay. That, the principle of giving credits for volunteers shall be applied by Districts seems fair and proper, though I do not know how far, by present statistics, it is practicable. When, for any cause, a fair credit is not given at one time, it should be given as soon thereafter as practicable. My purpose is to be just and fair; and yet to not lose time. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion Sir: Washington, Aug. 16, 1863.
It seems that George W. McGuire, and David Bell, have been tried and condemned to be shot by a Military commission, at St. Louis, Mo, of which commission, Gen. W. K. Strong was the head. If a transcript of the record is at your control, please send it to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James H. Hackett
Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, August 17, 1863.
Months ago I should have acknowledged the receipt of your book, and accompanying kind note; and I now have to beg your pardon for not having done so. For one of my age, I have seen very little of the drama. The first presentation of Falstaff I ever saw was yours here, last winter or spring. Perhaps the best compliment I can pay is to say, as I truly can, I am very anxious to see it again. Some of Shakspeare's plays I have never read; while others I have gone over perhaps as frequently as any unprofessional reader. Among the latter are Lear, Richard Third, Henry Eighth, Hamlet, and especially Macbeth. I think nothing equals Macbeth. It is wonderful. Unlike you gentlemen of the profession, I think the soliloquy in Hamlet commencing ``O, my offence is rank'' surpasses that commencing ``To be, or not to be.'' But pardon this small attempt at criticism. I should like to hear you pronounce the opening speech of Richard the Third. Will you not soon visit Washington again? If you do, please call and let me make your personal acquaintance. Yours truly A. LINCOLN. James H. Hackett, Esq.

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Johnson Washington D.C. Nashville, Tenn. Aug. 17. 1863
The appointment of Col. Gillem to be a Brigadier general has been ordered. A. LINCOLN

To Frederick F. Low
Hon. F. F. Lowe. Washington D.C. San Francisco, Cal. August 17. 1863
There seems to be considerable misunderstanding about the recent movement to take possession of the New-Almedan mine. It had no reference to any other mines or miners. In regard to mines and miners generaly, no change of policy by the government has been decided on, or even thought of, so far as I know. The New-Almedan mine was peculiar in this, that its occupants claimed to be the legal owners of it, on a Mexican grant, and went into court on the claim. The case found it's way into the Supreme Court of the United States; and last term, in and by that court, the claim of the occupants was decided to be utterly fraudulent. Thereupon it was considered the duty of the government, by the Secretary of the Interior, the Attorney General, and myself, to take possession of the premises; and the Attorney General carefully made out the Writ, and I signed it. It was not obtained surreptitiously, although I suppose Gen. Halleck thought it had been, when he telegraphed, simply because he thought possession was about being taken by a Military order---while he knew no such order had passed through his hands, as General-in-Chief. The Writ was suspended, upon urgent representations from California, simply to keep the peace. It never had any direct or indirect reference to any mine, place, or person, except the New-Almedan mine, and the persons connected with it. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 17, 1863
The writer of the within is reliable. Dr. Chipley has a son at Camp Chase, captured in the Confed. Army, who is now only in his eighteenth year. I think the Sec. of War may safely bail him to his father, who is unquestionably loyal. A. LINCOLN Aug. 17. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War please see Gen. Rousseau, at once. Aug. 17. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Frederick P. Stanton
Dear Sir August 17, 1863
I think there is no occasion for changing the Order in the Court of Inquiry case of which we spoke this morning. The main point is to put in all your evidence, and have it duly reported and entered so that, at the end, I can see it. Unless you have difficulty (which I do not anticipate) about getting your evidence in, I think you have no occasion to appeal to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William K. Strong
Gen. W. K. Strong Washington, D.C St. Louis, Mo. Aug. 17. 1863
Please send me a transcript of the record in the case McGuire & Bell, under sentence of death by a Commission of which you were the head. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

I believe Mr. North has already been appointed Judge, but if not, I think it may be done at once. A. LINCOLN Aug. 18. 1863

To James G. Blunt
Executive Mansion, Major General Blunt: Washington, August 18, 1863.
Yours of July 31st is received. Governor Carney did leave some papers with me concerning you; but they made no great impression upon me; and I believe they are not altogether such as you seem to think. As I am not proposing to act upon them, I do not now take the time to re-examine them. I regret to find you denouncing so many persons as liars, scoundrels, fools, thieves, and persecutors of yourself. Your military position looks critical, but did any body force you into it? Have you been ordered to confront and fight ten thousand men, with three thousand men? The Government cannot make men; and it is very easy, when a man has been given the highest commission, for him to turn on those who gave it and vilify them for not giving him a command according to his rank. My appointment of you first as a Brigadier, and then as a Major General, was evidence of my appreciation of your service; and I have not since marked but one thing in connection with you, with which to be dissatisfied. The sending a military order twenty five miles outside of your lines, and all military lines, to take men charged with no offence against the military, out of the hands of the courts, to be turned over to a mob to be hanged, can find no precedent or principle to justify it.  Judge Lynch sometimes takes jurisdiction of cases which prove too strong for the courts; but this is the first case within my knowledge, wherein the court being able to maintain jurisdiction against Judge Lynch, the military has come to the assistance of the latter. I take the facts of this case as you state them yourself, and not from any report of Governor Carney, or other person. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
August 18, 1863
Sec. of Treasury, please see this Lady who says she is wife of a preacher who is in the war as a Captain in the 126th. N. Y. She wants employment. A. LINCOLN Aug. 18. 1863

To Joseph Holt

This Report first reached me, August 18, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin B. French
Col. B. B. French Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, Aug. 19, 1863.
I have just seen the Secretary of War who says he will return to the Trustees their own building now in the control of the Surgeon General. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, August 19, 1863.
The bearer of this, Judge Colt, of Mo, introduced to me by the Attorney General, tells me [he] has a Step-son---Singleton Wilson---who ran away into the rebel army, then under seventeen, and still under nineteen, and who is now a prisoner at Camp-Morton, Indiana. He now wants to take the oath of allegiance, and go home with the Judge, and the Judge desires the same. May it not be safely done? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
August 20, 1863
Attorney General, please read & return to me as the report I get on the case he sent me Judge Colt---at the case presented to me by Judge Colt, coming with an introduction from Atty. Genl. Aug. 20. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To James C. Conkling
Hon. James C. Conkling Washington, D.C., Springfield, Illinois August 20 1863
Your letter of the 14th. is received. I think I will go, or send a letter---probably the latter. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew J. Hamilton
Gen. A. J. Hamilton, (of Texas) Washington, D.C., New-York--- August 20 1863
Telegraph me the name of a boy, or young man, whom you would like to have appointed to West-Point. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, Aug. 20, 1863.
Since leaving the Telegraph office it has occurred to me that it might be well to have Gen. Lockwood send down to us, the two men he mentions as just arrived from Fredericksburg. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
August 21, 1863
Judge Advocate General, please get all the papers, and report upon this case, with reference to the law , & the animus of Capt. Paige in the case. A. LINCOLN August 21. 1863

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Warrenton, Va Washington, Aug. 21, 1863.
At this late moment I am appealed to in behalf of William Thompson of Co. K. 3rd. Maryland Volunteers, in 12th. Army Corps said to be at Kelly's Ford, under sentence to be shot to-day as a deserter. He is represented to me to be very young, with symptoms of insanity. Please postpone the execution till further order A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please see this Pittsburgh boy. He is very young, and I shall be satisfied with whatever you do with him Aug. 21. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, August 21. 1863.
In the autumn of 1861, certain persons in armed rebellion, against the United States, within the counties of Acomac and Northampton, laid down their arms upon certain terms then proposed to them by Genl. Dix, in and by a certain procla[ma]tion. It is now said that these persons or some of them, are about to be forced into the military lines of the existing rebellion, unless they will take an oath prescribed to them since, and not included in, Gen. Dix' proclamation referred to. Now, my judgment is that no one of these men should be forced from his home, who has not broken faith with the government, according to the terms fixed by Gen. Dix and these men. It is bad faith in the government to force new terms upon such as have kept faith with it. At least so it seems to me.

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., To whom it may concern: August 21, 1863.
To-day I am called upon by a committee of colored ministers of the Gospel, who express a wish to go within our military lines and minister to their brethren there. The object is a worthy one, and I shall be glad for all facilities to be afforded them which may not be inconsistent with or a hindrance to our military operations. A. LINCOLN

To Green Adams
Hon. Green Adams Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Aug 22, 1863
I see by the papers that with nine counties still out Bramlette has over 50,000 majority. I wish you would ascertain for me the aggregate vote he has received. I wish to see whether it will be a clear majority of the largest vote ever cast in Kentucky. The Presidential vote of 1860 which I suppose to be the largest, was 146,216 and 73,109 would be a clear majority of it. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To John M. Schofield
Gen. Schofield Washinton, D.C. St. Louis, Mo. Aug. 22. 1863
Please send me, if you can, a transcript of the record in the case of McGuire & Bell, convicted of Murder by a Military Commission. I telegraphed Gen. Strong for it, but he does not answer. A. LINCOLN

To Daniel E. Sickles
Major General Sickles Washington D.C. My Dear Sir August 22. 1863
Your note and brief, about the California Land Claim, are received. The question presented is a property question, with which I do not think I should meddle as a volunteer. It will save me labor, therefore, if you will first point me to the law which assigns any duty to the President in the case. This done, next send me a reference to the treaty, and all the statutory law which bears upon the case. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Joseph P. Taylor
Commissary General please see Hon. J.O. Norton & oblige him if possible. A. LINCOLN Aug. 22, 1863.
Let Edward L. Gooding, recommended within, be appointed a Commissary of Subsistence. A. LINCOLN Aug. 22, 1863.

To Mrs. Elizabeth J. Grimsley
Mrs. Elizabeth J. Grimsley Washington, D.C., Springfield, Illinois. August 24 1863
I mail the papers to you to-day appointing Johnny to the Naval-School. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum: Appointment of Edward Sherer
[August 24, 1863]
Edward Sherer, 20 last March, wishes to go to West-Point.

Memorandum Concerning Illinois Claims
[August 24, 1863]
Under that provision of the United States Constitution which requires the President to take care that the Laws be faithfully executed, I am requested to cause a sum of money to be paid from the Treasury of the United States to the State of Illinois. By the sixth Section of the Illinois enabling act, approved April 18, 1818, it was among other things, provided that two per cent of the net proceeds of the sales of the United States lands, within Illinois, and which should be sold after the 1st. day of January 1819, should be disbursed under the direction of Congress in making roads leading to the State---this under a condition that the State should not tax the lands sold within five years of the day of sale. Illinois closed with these terms; and they became matter of compact. The money now claimed by Illinois is sought to be legally derived from this two per cent fund. 1806--- 	$ 30.000--- 	2 per ct. fund 1810--- 	60.000--- 	`` `` `` `` 	Ohio 1811--- 	50.000. 	`` `` `` `` 	fund 1812--- 	30.000. 	`` `` `` `` 1815--- 	100.000 	`` `` `` `` 52.984.62 1818 	260.000 1825--- 	150.000 	2 per ct fund 	O 1827--- 	30.000 	 	In 1829 	100.000 	 	Ills. 1829 	50.000 	 	Mo. 1829 	100.000 1831 	244.915 1834 	O 	200.000 In--- 	150.000 Ills.--- 	100.000 Pen 	300.000. 1835--- 	300.000 1835--- 	346.186--- 	East of Ohio 1836 	600.000--- 	East of Ohio 1838 	450.000

To Isaac N. Morris

I sent your case to the Secretary of the Interior yesterday, and have not yet heard of it. A. LINCOLN. August 24, 1863.

To John P. Usher
Executive Mansion, August 24, 1863.
Sir: By the within you see the claim of Illinois for the two per cent. on sales of public lands is again presented. My view of the case is not changed. I believe the law is with the State; and yet I think it is ungracious to be pressing the claim at this time of national trouble. Nevertheless, I have to ask that you will determine what is your duty according to the law, and then do it. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Note for Mrs. Brannon
August 25, 1863
Please see Mrs. Brannon.

Order for Clearance of Vessels Bound for New Orleans
Executive Mansion, Ordered. Washington, August 25 1863
1st. That clearances issued by the Treasury Department for vessels or merchandize bound for the port of New-Orleans for the military necessities of the Department cert[i]fied by Brigadier General Shepley the Military Governor of Louisiana, shall be allowed to enter said port. 2nd. That vessels and domestic produce from New-Orleans permitted by the Military Governor of Louisiana at New-Orleans for the military purpose of his Department, shall on his permit be allowed to pass from said port to its destination to any port not blockaded by the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
[August 25, 1863]
The little short act on page 804 of the large new volume was shown to me by Mr. Bingham of Ohio, as being the one, in connection with the other laws therein referred to, which works the result. I have not tracked up the other laws. A. LINCOLN.

To James C. Conkling
Hon. James C. Conkling Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir. Washington, August 26, 1863.
Your letter inviting me to attend a mass-meeting of unconditional Union-men, to be held at the Capital of Illinois, on the 3d day of September, has been received. It would be very agreeable to me, to thus meet my old friends, at my own home; but I can not, just now, be absent from here, so long as a visit there, would require. The meeting is to be of all those who maintain unconditional devotion to the Union; and I am sure my old political friends will thank me for tendering, as I do, the nation's gratitude to those other noble men, whom no partizan malice, or partizan hope, can make false to the nation's life. There  are those who are dissatisfied with me. To such I would say: You desire peace; and you blame me that we do not have it.  But how can we attain it? There are but three conceivable ways. First, to suppress the rebellion by force of arms. This, I am trying to do. Are you for it? If you are, so far we are agreed. If you are not for it, a second way is, to give up the Union. I am against this. Are you for it? If you are, you should say so plainly. If you are not for force , nor yet for dissolution , there only remains some imaginable compromise . I do not believe any compromise, embracing the maintenance of the Union, is now possible. All I learn, leads to a directly opposite belief. The strength of the rebellion, is its military---its army. That army dominates all the country, and all the people, within its range. Any offer of terms made by any man or men within that range, in opposition to that army, is simply nothing for the present; because such man or men, have no power whatever to enforce their side of a compromise, if one were made with them. To  illustrate---Suppose refugees from the South, and peace men of the North, get together in convention, and frame and proclaim a compromise embracing a restoration of the Union; in what way can that compromise be used to keep Lee's army out of Pennsylvania? Meade's army can keep Lee's army out of Pennsylvania; and, I think, can ultimately drive it out of existence. But no paper compromise, to which the controllers of Lee's army are not agreed, can, at all, affect that army. In an effort at such compromise we should waste time, which the enemy would improve to our disadvantage; and that would be all. A compromise, to be effective, must be made either with those who control the rebel army, or  with the people first liberated from the domination of that army, by the success of our own army. Now allow me to assure you, that no word or intimation, from that rebel army, or from any of the men controlling it, in relation to any peace compromise, has ever come to my knowledge or belief. All charges and insinuations to the contrary, are  deceptive and groundless. And I promise you, that if any such proposition shall hereafter come, it shall not be rejected, and kept a secret from you. I freely acknowledge myself the servant of the people, according to the bond of service---the United States constitution; and that, as such, I am responsible to them. But, to be plain, you are dissatisfied with me about the negro. Quite likely there is a difference of opinion between you and myself upon that subject. I certainly wish that all men  could be free, while I suppose you do not. Yet I have neither adopted, nor proposed any measure, which is not consistent with even your view, provided you are for the Union. I suggested compensated emancipation; to which you replied you wished not to be taxed to buy negroes. But I had not asked you to be taxed to buy negroes, except in such way, as to save you from greater taxation to save the Union exclusively by other means. You dislike the emancipation proclamation; and, perhaps, would have it retracted. You say it is unconstitutional---I think differently. I think the constitution invests its commander-in-chief, with the law of war, in time of war. The most that can be said, if so much, is, that slaves are property. Is there---has there ever been---any question that by the law of war, property, both of enemies and friends, may be taken when needed? And is it not needed whenever taking it, helps us, or hurts the enemy? Armies, the world over, destroy enemies' property when they can not use it; and even destroy their own to keep it from the enemy. Civilized belligerents do all  in their power to help themselves, or hurt the enemy, except a few things regarded as barbarous or cruel. Among the exceptions are the massacre of vanquished foes, and non-combatants, male and female. But the proclamation, as law, either is valid, or is not valid. If  it is not valid, it needs no retraction. If it is valid, it can not be retracted, any more than the dead can be brought to life. Some of you profess to think its retraction would operate favorably  for the Union. Why better after the retraction, than before the issue? There was more than a year and a half of trial to suppress the rebellion before the proclamation issued, the last one hundred days of which passed under an explicit notice that it was coming, unless averted by those in revolt, returning to their allegiance. The war has certainly progressed as favorably for us, since the issue of the proclamation as before.  I  know as fully as one can know the opinions of others, that some of the commanders of our armies in the field who have given us our most important successes, believe the emancipation policy, and the use of colored troops, constitute the heaviest blow yet dealt to the rebellion; and that, at least one of those important successes, could not have been achieved when it was, but for the aid of black soldiers. Among the commanders holding these views are some who have never had any affinity with what is called abolitionism, or with republican party politics; but who hold them purely as military opinions. I submit these opinions as being entitled to some weight against the objections, often urged, that emancipation, and arming the blacks, are unwise as military measures, and were not adopted, as such, in good faith. You say you will not fight to free negroes. Some  of them seem willing to fight for you; but, no matter. Fight you, then, exclusively to save the Union. I issued the proclamation on purpose to aid you in saving the Union. Whenever you shall have conquered all resistance to the Union, if I shall urge you to continue fighting, it will be an apt time, then, for you to declare you will not fight to free negroes. I thought that in your struggle for the Union, to whatever extent the negroes should cease helping the enemy, to that extent it weakened the enemy in his resistance to you. Do you think differently? I thought that whatever negroes can be got to do as soldiers, leaves just so much less for white soldiers to do, in saving the Union. Does it appear otherwise to you? But negroes, like other people, act  upon motives. Why should they do any thing for us, if we will do nothing for them? If they stake their lives for us, they must be prompted by the strongest motive---even the promise of freedom. And the promise being made, must be kept.  The signs look better. The Father of Waters again goes unvexed to the sea. Thanks to the great North-West for it. Nor yet wholly to them. Three hundred miles up, they met New-England, Empire, Key-Stone, and Jersey, hewing their way right and left. The Sunny South too, in more colors than one, also lent a hand. On the spot, their part of the history was jotted down in black and white. The job was a great national one; and let none be banned who bore an honorable part in it. And while those who have cleared the great river may well be proud, even that is not all. It is hard to say that anything has been more bravely, and well done, than at Antietam, Murfreesboro, Gettysburg, and on many fields of lesser note. Nor must Uncle Sam's Web-feet be forgotten. At all the watery margins they have been present. Not only on the deep sea, the broad bay, and the rapid river, but also up the narrow muddy bayou, and wherever the ground was a little damp, they have been, and made their tracks. Thanks to all. For the great republic---for the principle it lives by, and keeps alive---for man's vast future,--- thanks to all. Peace does not appear so distant as it did. I hope it will come soon, and come to stay; and so come as to be worth the keeping in all future time. It will then have been proved that, among free men, there can be no successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet; and that they who take such appeal are sure to lose their case, and pay the cost. And then, there will be some black men who can remember that, with silent tongue, and clenched teeth, and steady eye, and well-poised  bayonet, they have helped mankind on to this great consummation; while, I fear, there will be some white ones, unable to forget that, with malignant heart, and deceitful speech, they have strove to hinder it. Still let us not be over-sanguine of a speedy final triumph. Let us be quite sober. Let us diligently apply the means, never doubting that a just God, in his own good time, will give us the rightful result. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

Fragment
[c. August 26, 1863?]
Suppose those now in rebellion should say: ``We cease fighting: re-establish the national authority amongst us---customs, courts, mails, land-offices,---all as before the rebellion---we claiming to send members to both branches of Congress, as of yore, and to hold our slaves according to our State laws, notwithstanding anything or all things which has occurred during the rebellion.'' I probably should answer: ``It will be difficult to justify in reason, or to maintain in fact, a war on one side, which shall have ceased on the other. You began the war, and you can end it. If questions remain, let them be solved by peaceful means---by courts, and votes. This war is an appeal, by you, from the ballot to the sword; and a great object with me has been to teach the futility of such appeal---to teach that what is decided by the ballot, can not be reversed by the sword---to teach that there can be no successful appeal from a fair election, but to the next election. Whether persons sent to congress, will be admitted to seats is, by the constitution, left to each House to decide, the President having nothing to do with it. Yet the question can not be one of indifference to me. I shall dread, and I think we all should dread, to see the `the disturbing element' so brought back into the government, as to make probable a renewal of the terrible scenes through which we are now passing. During my continuance here, the government will return no person to slavery who is free according to the proclamation, or to any of the acts of congress, unless such return shall be held to be a legal duty, by the proper court of final resort, in which case I will promptly act as may then appear to be my personal duty.[''] Congress has left to me very large powers to remit forfeitures and personal penalties; and I should exercise these to the greatest extent which might seem consistent with the future public safety. I have thus told you, once more, so far as it is for me to say, what you are fighting for. The prospects of the Union have greatly improved recently; still, let us not be over-sanguine of a speedy final triumph. Let us diligently apply the means, never doubting that a just God, in his own good time, will give us the rightful result.

Memorandum: Appointment of Howard North

Col. Alexander, of Engineers, desires Howard North appointed to West-Point---no kin---father lives in Conn. A. LINCOLN Aug. 26. 1863

To Isaac N. Morris
Hon. I. N. Morris Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, August 26, 1863.
Your note, asking what you were to understand, was received yesterday. Monday morning, I sent the papers to the Secretary of the Interior, with an indorsement that my impression of the law was not changed, and that I desired him to take up the case and do his duty according to his view of the law. Yesterday I said the same thing to him verbally. Now, my understanding is that the law has not assigned me, specifically, any duty in the case, but has assigned it to the Secretary of the Interior. It may be my general duty to direct him to act; which I have performed. When he shall have acted, if his action is not satisfactory, there may, or may not, be an appeal to me. It is a point I have not examined; but if then it be shown that the law gives such appeal, I shall not hesitate to entertain it when presented. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War, Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, D.C. Aug. 26, 1863.
In my correspondence with Gov. Seymour in relation to the draft, I have said to him, substantially, that credits shall be given for volunteers up to the latest moment, before drawing in any district, that can be done without producing confusion or delay. In order to do this, let our mustering officers in New-York, and elsewhere, be at once instructed that whenever they muster into our service any number of volunteers, to at once make return to the War Department, both by telegraph and mail, the date of the muster, the number mustered, and the Congressional or enrolment District, or Districts, of their residences, giving the number separately for each District. Keep these returns diligently posted, and by them give full credit on the quotas, if possible, on the last day before the draft begins in any District. Again, I have informed Governor Seymour that he shall be notified of the time when the draft is to commence in each District in his State. This is equally proper for all the States. In order to carry it out, I propose that so soon as the day for commencing the draft in any District is definitely determined, the Governor of the State, including the District, be notified thereof, both by telegraph and mail, in form, about as follows: ..... ..... 1863 Governor of ..... ..... You are notified that the draft will commence in the..... District, at..... on the..... day of..... 1863, at..... A.M. of said day. Please acknowledge receipt of this, by telegraph and mail. ..... ..... This notice may be given by the Provost-Marshall-General here, the sub-Provost-Marshall-Generals in the States, or perhaps by the District Provost-Marshalls. Whenever we shall have so far proceeded in New York as to make the re-enrolments specially promised there, practicable, I wish that also to go forward; and I wish Governor Seymour notified of it; so that, if he choose, he can place agents of his, with ours, to see the work fairly done. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please see & hear the bearer. Aug. 26, 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General. War Department Dear Sir Washington City, Aug. 27 1863
Please make out and send for my signature, a formal pardon according to the letter with my little endorsement on it which will be shown you by Gen. Green Clay Smith. Yours truly A. LINCOLN William Duke is hereby pardoned for all offences herein confessed by him, up to the time of his taking the oath and giving bond. Aug. 27. 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To James C. Conkling
Private War Department Washington City, D.C.
My dear Conkling Aug. 27 1863.
I can not leave here now. Herewith is a letter instead. You are one of the best public readers. I have but one suggestion. Read it very slowly. And now God bless you, and all good Union-men. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Washington, D.C., Warrenton Va August 27 1863
Walter, Rainese, Faline, Lae, & Kuhne appeal to me for mercy, without giving any ground for it whatever. I understand these are very flagrant cases, and that you deem their punishment as being indispensable to the service. If I am not mistaken in this, please let them know at once that their appeal is denied. A. LINCOLN

To John M. Schofield
Gen. Schofield Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Mo. Aug. 27 1863
I have just received the despatch which follows, from two very influential citizens of Kansas, whose names I omit. The severe blow they have received, naturally enough makes them intemperate, even without there being any just cause for blame. Please do your utmost to give them future security, and to punish their invaders. A. LINCOLN

To Horatio Seymour
His Excellency Executive Mansion Horatio Seymour, Washington, D.C. Governor of New-York Aug. 27. 1863
Yours of the 21st. with exhibits, was received on the 24th. In the midst of pressing duties, I have been unable to answer sooner. In the mean time the Provost-Marshal General has had access to yours, and has addressed a communication in relation [to] it, to the Secretary of War, a copy of which communication, I herewith inclose to you.  Independently of this, I addressed a letter, on the same subject, to the Secretary of War, a copy of which I also inclose to you.  The Secretary has sent my letter to the Provost-Marshal-General, with direction that he adopt and follow the course therein pointed out. It will, of course, over-rule any conflicting view of the Provost Marshal-General, if there be such. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN--- ``over'' P.S. I do not mean to say that if the Provost-Marshal General can find it practicable to give credits by sub-districts, I over-rule him in that. On the contrary I shall be glad of it; but I will not take the risk of over-burthening him, by ordering him to do it. A. L.

To Francis C. Sherman and Samuel S. Hayes
`` Cypher '' F.C. Sherman, Mayor, & Executive Mansion S.S. Hayes, Comptroller. Washington, D.C. Chicago, Illinois Aug. 27, 1863.
Yours of the 24th. in relation to the draft, is received. It seems to me the Government here will be overwhelmed, if it undertakes to conduct these matters with the authorities of cities and counties---that they must be conducted with the Governors of States, who will, of course, represent the cities and counties. Meanwhile you need not to be uneasy until you again hear from here. A. LINCOLN

To Abel C. Wilder and James H. Lane
Hon. A. C. Wilder, & Hon. J. H. Lane Washington, D.C., Leavenworth, Kansas. Aug: 27 1863
Notice of your demand for the removal of Gen. Schofield, is hereby acknowledged. A. LINCOLN

To Samuel W. Crawford
Gen. Crawford Executive Mansion Washington D.C. Rappahannock-Station Va. Aug. 28. 1863
I regret that I can not be present to witness the presentation of a Sword by the gallant Pennsylvania Reserve Corps, to one so worthy to receive it as Gen. Meade. A. LINCOLN.

To John G. Foster
Major Gen. Foster Washington, D.C., Fort-Monroe, Va August 28, 1863
Please notify, if you can, Senator Bowden, Mr. Segar, and Mr. Chandler, all, or any of them, that I now have the record in Dr. Wright's case, and am ready to hear them. When you shall have got the notice to them, please let me know. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General, please if you can, to get the record and report on this case to me. A. LINCOLN Aug. 28. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I know not whether the service will admit of this. If it will, of course I have no objection. A. LINCOLN Aug. 28. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton and Henry W. Halleck
August 28, 1863
It is represented that Col. Wm. Mayer, named within, was the most efficient officer in suppressing the late New-York riots. He wishes to be a Brigadier General. I submit his case to the Sec. of War & General in-Chief. A. LINCOLN Aug. 28. 1863

To Salmon P. Chase

Hon. Sec. of the Treasury. Please see Mr. Erskine who wishes a brief interview in relation to U.S. bonds A. LINCOLN. August 29. 1863

To Ben Field
Ben. Field, Esq Executive Mansion, Syracuse, N. Y. Washington, August 29, 1863.
I send you by mail to-day, a copy of the Springfield letter. A. LINCOLN

To Ben Field
Ben. Field, Esq Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, August 29, 1863.
Herewith is a copy of the Springfield letter, as requested. Do not let it become public until your meeting shall have come off---or, perhaps I should say ``come on'' Your Obt. Servt A LINCOLN

To William A. Hammond

If the Surgeon General knows of a vacancy, to which Mr. Maddux, could be appointed, please indorse it below and return to me. Aug. 29. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General, please examine these, & any other papers accessable to you, pertaining to the case, and report to me. Aug. 29, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln. Executive Mansion, Manchester, N. H. Washington D.C. Aug. 29, 1863
All quite well. Fort-Sumpter is certainly battered down, and utterly useless to the enemy, and it is believed here, but not entirely certain, that both Sumpter and Fort-Wagner, are occupied by our forces. It is also certain that Gen. Gilmore has thrown some shot into the City of Charleston. A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for Nelson L. Crist
August 29, 1863
This man wants employment, and I shall be glad if it can be given him. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Secretary of War:- Washington, Aug. 29, 1863.
Dr. Brown, the embalmer, who has so long gone with our Armies, says he is now prevented in consequence of the loss of a paper. I suppose he should be given another, unless there be some reason to the contrary unknown to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 29, 1863
I am appealed to, for the release of Robert Howard and Junius B. Alexander, now prisoners of war at Fort Delaware. They are both privates, and the latter only eighteen years of age as represented to me. They wish to take the oath, give bond, and be discharged. Has any rule been established that meets the case? Sec. of War please see the bearer.

To Leonard Swett
Hon. L. Swett Washington D.C. San Francisco, Cal. Aug. 29. 1863
If the government's rights are reserved, the government will be satisfied; and, at all events, it will consider. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Secretary of the Navy please see & hear the bearer. Aug. 29, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To James C. Conkling
Hon. James C. Conkling Executive Mansion, Springfield, Illinois Washington, August 31. 1863.
In my letter of the 26th.  insert between the sentence ending ``since the issue of the emancipation proclamation, as before'' and the next, commencing ``You say you will not fight &c'' what follows below my signature hereto--- A. LINCOLN. ``I know as fully as one can know the opinions of others, that some of the commanders of our armies in the field who have given us our most important successes, believe the emancipation policy, and the use of colored troops, constitute the heaviest blow yet dealt to the rebellion; and that, at least one of those important successes, could not have been achieved when it was, but for the aid of black soldiers. Among the commanders holding these views are some who have never had any affinity with what is called abolitionism, or with republican party politics;  but who hold them purely as military opinions. I submit these opinions as being entitled to some weight against the objections, often urged, that emancipation; and arming the blacks, are unwise as military measures, and were not adopted as such, in good faith.''

To Henry W. Halleck
August 31, 1863
It is not improbable that retaliation for the recent great outrage at Lawrence, in Kansas, may extend to indiscriminate slaughter on the Missouri border, unless averted by very judicious action. I shall be obliged if the general-in-chief can make any suggestions to General Schofield upon the subject. A. LINCOLN.

To Atwood G. Hobson
Col. A. G. Hobson Washington, D.C., Bowling Green, Kentucky August 31 1863
I have telegraphed Lt. Col. Lauck, at Munfordsville, to suspend the execution of Coleman and Johns, until further order from here. A. LINCOLN

To James F. Lauck
Lieut. Colonel Lauck Washington, D.C., Munfordsville, Kentucky. August 31 1863
Let the execution of Thomas E. Coleman, and Charles Johns, be suspended until further order from here. Acknowledge receipt of this. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion, Washington, My dear General Rosecrans August 31. 1863.
Yours of the 22nd. was received yesterday. When I wrote you before, I did [not]  intend, nor do I now, to engage in an argument with you on military questions. You had informed me you were impressed, through Gen. Halleck, that I was dissatisfied with you; and I could not bluntly deny that I was, without unjustly implicating him. I therefore concluded to tell you the plain truth, being satisfied the matter would thus appear much smaller than it would if seen by mere glimpses. I repeat that my appreciation of you has not abated. I can never forget, whilst I remember anything, that about the end of last year, and beginning of this, you gave us a hard earned victory which, had there been a defeat instead, the nation could scarcely have lived over. Neither can I forget the check you so opportunely gave to a dangerous sentiment which was spreading in the North. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN.

To Henry B. Wilson and Others
H. B. Wilson, & others Washington D.C. Camden, N. J. Aug. 31. 1863
Will grant you an interview, on Wednesday, or sooner. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
September 1, 1863
Whereas it is represented to me that there is an indictment pending, against William Stephens (who writes his name W. N. Stephens) of which the within is a substantial copy; and that said Stephens, since the finding of said indictment, did, in good faith, under a certain proclamation, or order of tendering indemnity upon certain terms, return to his allegiance to the United States. Now, therefore the said William Stephens, alias William N. Stephens, may offer to plead this paper in the court, wherein said indictment is pending, with the additional allegation that he shall have maintained his allegiance to the United States, up to the time of pleading, and, if received, he shall prove the allegations true, then he is fully pardoned for all matters charged in the indictment. Or, if the Court refuse to receive the plea, or hear the proof being offered as aforesaid, then he, the said William Stephens, alias William N. Stephens, if [is] fully pardoned for all matters charged in the indictment. Sept. 1. 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Judge Advocate General Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Sept. 1, 1863.
I am told that Carbery Lay, a Captain in the 12th. Regular Infantry has been dismissed by a Court-Martial. Please get the record, and examine the case & report to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Recommendation

I do not know the bearer; but he says he has served in the war, is disabled & now wants employment. I shall be glad if he can get it. Sep. 1. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Secretary of War, please hand me a full report of this case. Sep. 1, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Sep 1, 1863.
I am now informed, contrary to my impression when I last talked with you, that the order compelling the four hundred on Eastern Shore of Virginia to take the oath or be sent away, is about being carried into execution. As this, and also the assessment for damage done to, and at the light house, are very strong measures, and as I have to bear the responsibility of them, I wish them suspended till I can at least be better satisfied of their propriety than I now am. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Sept. 1, 1863.
I am quite satisfied that it will be good policy for us to suspend until further order, the collection of the assessment levied to indemnify the government for destruction and spoliation of property at and about the Light-House on Smith Island, Virginia. Please let an order be made accordingly. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
[September 1, 1863]
Mr. Speed wishes to see the Sec. of War, concerning the appointment of a cadet, on recommendation of Gen. Rosecrans. Please see him. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Executive Mansion, Hon. Attorney General. Washington Sept. 2, 1863.
Satisfactory evidence having been produced to me that William A. [N.?] Stephens of Shelby county, Kentucky, is under an indictment for treason in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky; and that said Stephens, under a certain proclamation tendering upon certain terms, did, on or about the fifth day of June, 1863, and since the finding of said indictment, take the oath of allegiance to the United States, and give bond with security accordingly, I do hereby pardon him for the offense charged in the indictment, and for all similar offenses up to the said fifth of June, 1863. Please make out a pardon accordingly. A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. S. P. Chase. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, September 2. 1863.
Knowing your great anxiety that the emancipation proclamation shall now be applied to certain parts of Virginia and Louisiana which were exempted from it last January, I state briefly what appear to me to be difficulties in the way of such a step. The original proclamation has no constitutional or legal justification, except as a military measure. The exemptions were made because the military necessity did not apply to the exempted localities. Nor does that necessity apply to them now any more than it did then. If I take the step must I not do so, without the argument of military necessity, and so, without any argument, except the one that I think the measure politically expedient, and morally right? Would I not thus give up all footing upon constitution or law? Would I not thus be in the boundless field of absolutism? Could this pass unnoticed, or unresisted? Could it fail to be perceived that without any further stretch, I might do the same in Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Missouri; and even change any law in any state? Would not many of our own friends shrink away appalled? Would it not lose us the elections, and with them, the very cause we seek to advance?

To William H. Seward

Please Telegraph Dr. Gray asking him whether he could come and serve the government one month more or less, & how soon. Sept. 2. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Sept. 2. 1863.
This woman says her husband and two sons are in the war; that the youngest son W. J. Klaproth, is a private in Co. D, of 143rd. Pennsylvania, volunteers, was wounded, made a prisoner & paroled at Gettysburg, and is now at Center-Street hospital, New Jersey; and that he was under eighteen when he entered the service without the consent of his father or herself. She says she is destitute, and she asks that he may be discharged If she makes satisfactory proof of the above let it be done. A. LINCOLN

To Timothy P. Andrews
Pay Master General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Sept. 3, 1863.
Please see and hear Major Mallett, and oblige him so far as you consistently can, in the place he may be assigned to duty. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James C. Conkling
Hon. James C. Conkling Executive Mansion, Springfield, Illinois: Washington, Sept. 3, 1863.
I am mortified this morning to find the letter to you, botched up, in the Eastern papers, telegraphed from Chicago. How did this happen? A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

Two despatches. Telegraph. A. LINCOLN September 3, 1863.

To D. M. Leatherman
D. M. Leatherman, Esq Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Sep. 3. 1863.
I see your card on my table. I would be glad to oblige all, but it is impossible. I suppose I understand your business at this time. It is about some property claimed by a woman in or near Memphis, under a deed from her husband who is in the rebel service, and which claim has been passed upon once or twice already. The impropriety of bringing such cases to me, is obvious to any one who will consider that I could not properly act on any case without understanding it, and that I have neither the means nor time, to obtain such understanding. Yours &c. A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln. Washington, D.C. Manchester, Vermont. Sept. 3. 1863.
The Secretary of War tells me he has telegraphed Gen. Doubleday to await further orders. We are all well, and have nothing new. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please see the bearer a moment. Sept. 3. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Sep. 3. 1863
Please have made and sent to me a statement of the case of Capt. Samuel Ford, of Co. A. 5. Md. Regt. now in Carroll prison. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Submitted to the Secretary of the Navy, with request that Lieut. Riell be heard. A. LINCOLN Sept. 3 1863

Order Concerning Export of War Materiel
Executive Mansion Washington City, Sept. 4th., 1863.
Ordered, That the Executive Order, dated November 21st., 1862, prohibiting the exportation from the United States of arms, ammunition or munitions of war, under which the commandants of Departments were, by Order of the Secretary of War, dated May 13, 1863, directed to prohibit the purchase and sale for exportation from the United States of all horses and mules within their respective commands, and to take and appropriate to the use of the United States any horses, mules and live stock designed for exportation, be so far modified that any arms heretofore imported into the United States may be re-exported to the place of original shipment, and that any live stock raised in any State or Territory bounded by the Pacific Ocean may be exported from any port of such State or Territory. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Montgomery C. Meigs
Q. M. General. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Sept. 5. 1863.
This introduces C. Vanderbilt Jr. son of the Comodore. He comes with a business proposition to you. Please give him a fair & respectful hearing, and oblige him if consistent with the service. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Apxpointment of Daniel Applegate

I would like for Mr. Bates to be obliged. A. LINCOLN Sep. 5, 1863

Memorandum:Appointment of Thornton A. Jenkins

If there is a vacancy, not committed, let this young man be appointed. A. LINCOLN Sep. 5, 1863

Memorandum Concerning William E. Morgan
September 5 and 18, 1863
I know nothing of this particular case. I have said a great many times, that all whose services we receive, should be paid,---but I do not know, nor have I the time to enquire, whether this claim can be lawfully paid or not. If it can, let it be done. Sep. 5. 1863. A. LINCOLN I can not properly say more than I have said above. Sep. 18. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Segar
Hon. Joseph Segar: Washington, D.C., Fort-Monroe---Va Sept. 5 1863
I have just seen your despatch to the Secretary of War, who is absent. I also send a despatch from Major Hayner of the 3rd. showing that he had notice of my order, and stating that the people were jubilant over it, as a victory over the government extorted by fear, and that he had already collected about four thousand of the money. If he has proceeded since I shall hold him accountable for his contumacy. On the contrary no dollar shall be refunded by my order, until it shall appear that my act in the case has been accepted in the right spirit. A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Washington, D.C., Manchester, Vermont Sep. 6. 1863
All well, and no news, except that Gen. Burnside has Knoxville, Tennessee. A. LINCOLN

To Robert C. Schenck
Major Genl. Schenck. Washington, D.C., Baltimore. Sept. 6. 1863
The Secretary of War is absent. Please direct or order that the collection of the Light-House be suspended, and that the money already collected be held, both till further order A. LINCOLN

To Francis C. Sherman and Samuel S. Hayes
F. C. Sherman & S. S. Hayes Washington D.C. Chicago, Illinois. Sep. 6. 1863
Yours of Aug. 29 just received. I suppose it was intended by Congress that this government should execute the Act in question, without dependence upon any other government, State, City, or County. It is, however, within the range of practical convenience, to confer with the Governors of States, while it would go quite beyond that range, to have correspondence on the subject with counties and cities. They are too numerous. As instances, I have correspondence with Governor Seymour, but none with Mayor Opdycke---with Gov. Curtin, but none with Mayor Henry. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War Washington, D.C., Bedford, Pa. Sept. 6 1863
Burnside has Kingston, & Knoxville, and drove the enemy across the river at Loudon, the enemy destroying the bridge there. Captured some stores & one or two trains. Very little fighting---few wounded and none killed. No other news of consequence. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Louis Bargdorf

The bearer is one of my Messengers, & should be passed in to & out of the Department. A. LINCOLN Sep. 7. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Honorable Secretary of War. September 7, 1863.
My dear Sir: This lady says her husband, Theophilus Brown, and his brother, George E. Brown, are in the Old Capitol Prison as prisoners of war, that they were conscripted into the rebel army, and were never for the rebel cause, and are now willing to do anything reasonable to be at liberty. This may be true, and if true they should be liberated. Please take hold of the case, and do what may seem proper in it. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Warrenton, Va.: Washington, September 9, 1863.
It would be a generous thing to give General Wheaton a leave of absence for ten or fifteen days, and if you can do so without injury to the service, please do it. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 9, 1863
Mrs. Harvey wishes the Hospital to be named for her late husband. . . .

To John P. Gray
Dr. John P. Gray Executive Mansion, Sir, Washington, September 10th. 1863.
Dr. David M. Wright is in military custody at Norfolk, Virginia, having been, by a military commission, tried for murder, and sentenced to death, his execution awaiting the order of the Major General in command of that Military Department, or of the President of the United States. The record is before me; and a question is made as to the sanity of the accused. You will please proceed to the Military Department whose head-quarters are at Fort-Monroe, and take in writing all evidence which may be offered on behalf of Dr. Wright and against him, and any, in addition, which you may find within your reach, and deem pertinent; all said evidence to be directed to the question of Dr. Wright's sanity or insanity, and not to any other questions; you to preside, with power to exclude evidence which shall appear to you clearly not pertinent to the question. When the taking of the evidence shall be closed, you will report the same to me, together with your own conclusions, as to Dr. Wright's sanity, both at the time of the homocide, and the time of your examination. On reaching Fort-Monroe, you will present this letter to the officer then commanding that Department, and deliver to him a copy of the same; upon which he is hereby directed to notify Hon. L. J. Bowden, and Hon. L. H. Chandler, of the same; to designate some suitable person in his command to appear for the government, as Judge Advocate or Prossecuting Attorney; to provide for the attendance of all such witnesses before you as may be desired by either party, or by yourself, and who may be within convenient reach of you; to furnish you a suitable place, or places for conducting the examination; and to render you such other reasonable assistance in the premises as you may require. If you deem it proper, you will examine Dr. Wright personally, and you may, in your discretion, require him to be present during the whole, or any part, of the taking of the evidence. The Military are hereby charged to see that an escape does not occur. Yours truly. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Frederick Moelich
September 10, 1863
I can not listen to a man's own story, unsupported by any evidence, who has been convicted of violating the law; because that would put an end to all law. A. LINCOLN Sep. 10. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 10, 1863
The bearer is Dr. Gray who is to go to Norfolk for us.

To Frank Wheaton
Gen. Wheaton Washington D.C. Army of Potomac. Sep. 10. 1863.
Yesterday, at the instance of Mr. Blair, senr. I telegraphed Gen. Meade asking him to grant you a leave of absence, to which he replied that you had not applied for such leave, and that you can have it when you do apply. I suppose it is proper for you to know this. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Cypher Major General Burnside Washington, D.C. Cumberland Gap: Sep. 11. 1863
Yours received. A thousand thanks for the late sucesses you have given us. We can not allow you to resign until things shall be a little more settled in East-Tennessee. If then, purely on your own account, you wish to resign, we will not further refuse you A. LINCOLN

To Hannibal Hamlin
Vice-President Hamlin Washington D.C. Bangor, Maine Sep. 11. 1863
Your letter of Aug. 22nd., to be presented by your son Cyrus is on my table; but I have not seen him, or know of his being here recently. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Private Hon. Andrew Johnson: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, September 11, 1863.
All Tennessee is now clear of armed insurrectionists. You need not to be reminded that it is the nick of time for re-inaugerating  a loyal State government. Not a moment should be lost. You, and the co-operating friends there, can better judge of the ways and means, than can be judged by any here. I only offer a few suggestions. The re-inaugeration  must not be such as to give control of the State, and it's representation in Congress, to the enemies of the Union, driving it's friends there into political exile. The whole struggle for Tennessee will have been profitless to both State and Nation, if it so ends that Gov. Johnson is put down, and Gov. Harris is put up. It must not be so. You must have it otherwise. Let the reconstruction be the work of such men only as can be trusted for the Union. Exclude all others, and trust that your government, so organized, will be recognized here, as being the one of republican form, to be guarranteed to the state, and to be protected against invasion and domestic violence. It is something on the question of time , to remember that it can not be known who is next to occupy the position I now hold, nor what he will do. I see that you have declared in favor of emancipation in Tennessee, for which, may God bless you. Get emancipation into your new State government---Constitution---and there will be no such word as fail for your case. The raising of colored troops I think will greatly help every way. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Warrenton, Va.: Washington, September 11, 1863.
It is represented to me that Thomas Edds, in your army, is under sentence of death for desertion, to be executed next Monday. It is also said his supposed desertion is comprised in an absence commencing with his falling behind last winter, being captured and paroled by the enemy, and then going home. If this be near the truth, please suspend the execution till further order and send me the record of the trial. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon Sec. of War Executive Mansion Sir Washington September 11th. 1863
The father Lieut A. S. Eddy, a personal acquaintance of mine, is here saying his son has been in arrest for several months. Genl. Orme, in the West has more than once asked to have the Lieut. on his Staff. Please have the case looked up, and let us see if there is not a better use to put him to, than, keeping him in arrest. I have reason to believe, he is a gallant young officer Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John W. Geary
Gen. Geary Executive Mansion, Kellys Ford Washington, Sep. 12, 1863.
Please tell me what you know, or believe as to the conduct and disposition of E. Jacquelin Smith, residing near Salem on the Mannassas Gap Railroad. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

The Recommendation of Gen. Rosecrans is approved and sentence commuted as suggested A. LINCOLN Sept. 12, 1863

To George G. Meade
Washington, D.C., September 12, 1863.
Major-General Meade, Warrenton, Va.: The name is ``Thomas Edds'' not ``Eddies'' as in your dispatch. The papers left with me do not designate the regiment to which he belongs. The man who gave me the papers, I do not know how to find again. He only told me that Edds is in the Army of the Potomac, and that he fell out of the ranks during Burnsides' mud march last winter. If I get further information I will telegraph again. A. LINCOLN.

To Josiah Quincy
Executive Mansion, September 12, 1863.
Dear and honored Sir: Allow me to express the personal gratification I feel at the receipt of your very kind letter of the 7th of September, and to thank you most cordially for its wise and earnest words of counsel. Believe me, my dear sir, to be very respectfully and sincerely your friend and servant, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 12, 1863
Let the re-appointment be made.

To John P. Gray
Dr.John P.Gray. Executive Mansion, Norfolk,Va. Washington, Sept. 13, 1863.
The names of those whose affidavits are left with me on the question of Dr. Wrights sanity are as follow: Mrs. Jane C. Bolsom 	Mrs. Elizabeth Rooks. Mrs. M. E. Smiley 	Dr.E.D.Granier Moses Hudgin 	Thomas K.Murray. J.D. Ghislin, Jr. 	William J.Holmes Felix Logue 	Miss Margaret E.Wigeon. Robert B.Tunstall, M.D. 	Mrs.Emily S.Frost. A. LINCOLN

To William H. H. Scott
Dr.Wm.H.H.Scott Executive Mansion, Danville, Illinois Washington, Sep. 13. 1863.
Your niece, Mrs. Kate Sharp, can now have no difficulty in going to Knoxville, Tennessee, as that place is within our Military lines. A. LINCOLN

Opinion on the Draft
[September 14? 1863]
It is at all times proper that misunderstanding between the public and the public servant should be avoided; and this is far more important now, than in times of peace and tranquility. I therefore address you without searching for a precedent upon which to do so. Some of you are sincerely devoted to the republican institutions, and territorial integrity of our country, and yet are opposed to what is called the draft, or conscription. At the beginning of the war, and ever since, a variety of motives pressing, some in one direction and some in the other, would be presented to the mind of each man physically fit for a soldier, upon the combined effect of which motives, he would, or would not, voluntarily enter the service. Among these motives would be patriotism, political bias, ambition, personal courage, love of adventure, want of employment, and convenience, or the opposites of some of these. We already have, and have had in the service, as appears, substantially all that can be obtained upon this voluntary weighing of motives. And yet we must somehow obtain more, or relinquish the original object of the contest, together with all the blood and treasure already expended in the effort to secure it. To meet this necessity the law for the draft has been enacted. You who do not wish to be soldiers, do not like this law. This is natural; nor does it imply want of patriotism. Nothing can be so just, and necessary, as to make us like it, if it is disagreeable to us. We are prone, too, to find false arguments with which to excuse ourselves for opposing such disagreeable things. In this case those who desire the rebellion to succeed, and others who seek reward in a different way, are very active in accomodating us with this class of arguments. They tell us the law is unconstitutional. It is the first instance, I believe, in which the power of congress to do a thing has ever been questioned, in a case when the power is given by the constitution in express terms. Whether a power can be implied, when it is not expressed, has often been the subject of controversy; but this is the first case in which the degree of effrontery has been ventured upon, of denying a power which is plainly and distinctly written down in the constitution. The constitution declares that ``The congress shall have power . . . To raise and support armies; but no appropriation of money to that use shall be for a longer term than two years.'' The whole scope of the conscription act is ``to raise and support armies.'' There is nothing else in it. It makes no appropriation of money; and hence the money clause just quoted, is not touched by it. The case simply is the constitution provides that the congress shall have power to raise and support armies; and, by this act, the congress has exercised the power to raise and support armies. This is the whole of it. It is a law made in litteral pursuance of this part of the United States Constitution; and another part of the same constitution declares that ``This constitution, and the laws made in pursuance thereof . . . shall be the supreme law of the land, and the judges in every state shall be bound thereby, anything in the constitution or laws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding.'' Do you admit that the power is given to raise and support armies, and yet insist that by this act congress has not exercised the power in a constitutional mode?---has not done the thing, in the right way? Who is to judge of this? The constitution gives congress the power, but it does not prescribe the mode, or expressly declare who shall prescribe it. In such case congress must prescribe the mode, or relinquish the power. There is no alternative. Congress could not exercise the power to do the thing, if it had not the power of providing a way to do it, when no way is provided by the constitution for doing it. In fact congress would not have the power to raise and support armies, if even by the constitution, it were left to the option of any other, or others, to give or withhold the only mode of doing it. If the constitution had prescribed a mode, congress could and must follow that mode; but as it is, the mode necessarily goes to congress, with the power expressly given. The power is given fully, completely, unconditionally. It is not a power to raise armies if State authorities consent; nor if the men to compose the armies are entirely willing; but it is a power to raise and support armies given to congress by the constitution, without an if. It is clear that a constitutional law may not be expedient or proper. Such would be a law to raise armies when no armies were needed. But this is not such. The republican institutions, and territorial integrity of our country can not be maintained without the further raising and supporting of armies. There can be no army without men. Men can be had only voluntarily, or involuntarily. We have ceased to obtain them voluntarily; and to obtain them involuntarily, is the draft---the conscription. If you dispute the fact, and declare that men can still be had voluntarily in sufficient numbers prove the assertion by yourselves volunteering in such numbers, and I shall gladly give up the draft. Or if not a sufficient number, but any one of you will volunteer, he for his single self, will escape all the horrors of the draft; and will thereby do only what each one of at least a million of his mainly brethren have already done. Their toil and blood have been given as much for you as for themselves. Shall it all be lost rather than you too, will bear your part? I do not say that all who would avoid serving in the war, are unpatriotic; but I do think every patriot should willingly take his chance under a law made with great care in order to secure entire fairness. This law was considered, discussed, modified, and amended, by congress, at great length, and with much labor; and was finally passed, by both branches, with a near approach to unanimity. At last, it may not be exactly such as any one man out of congress, or even in congress, would have made it. It has been said, and I believe truly, that the constitution itself is not altogether such as any one of it's framers would have preferred. It was the joint work of all; and certainly the better that it was so. Much complaint is made of that provision of the conscription law which allows a drafted man to substitute three hundred dollars for himself; while, as I believe, none is made of that provision which allows him to substitute another man for himself. Nor is the three hundred dollar provision objected to for unconstitutionality; but for inequality---for favoring the rich against the poor. The substitution of men is the provision if any, which favors the rich to the exclusion of the poor. But this being a provision in accordance with an old and well known practice, in the raising of armies, is not objected to. There would have been great objection if that provision had been omitted. And yet being in, the money provision really modifies the inequality which the other introduces. It allows men to escape the service, who are too poor to escape but for it. Without the money provision, competition among the more wealthy might, and probably would, raise the price of substitutes above three hundred dollars, thus leaving the man who could raise only three hundred dollars, no escape from personal service. True, by the law as it is, the man who can not raise so much as three hundred dollars, nor obtain a personal substitute for less, can not escape; but he can come quite as near escaping as he could if the money provision were not in the law. To put it another way, is an unobjectionable law which allows only the man to escape who can pay a thousand dollars, made objectionable by adding a provision that any one may escape who can pay the smaller sum of three hundred dollars? This is the exact difference at this point between the present law and all former draft laws. It is true that by this law a some what larger number will escape than could under a law allowing personal substitutes only; but each additional man thus escaping will be [a] poorer man than could have escaped by the law in the other form. The money provision enlarges the class of exempts from actual service simply by admitting poorer men into it. How, then can this money provision be a wrong to the poor man? The inequality complained of pertains in greater degree to the substitution of men, and is really modified and lessened by the money provision. The inequality could only be perfectly cured by sweeping both provisions away. This being a great innovation, would probably leave the law more distasteful than it now is. The principle of the draft, which simply is involuntary, or enforced service, is not new. It has been practiced in all ages of the world. It was well known to the framers of our constitution as one of the modes of raising armies, at the time they placed in that instrument the provision that ``the congress shall have power to raise and support armies.'' It has been used, just before, in establishing our independence; and it was also used under the constitution in 1812. Wherein is the peculiar hardship now? Shall we shrink from the necessary means to maintain our free government, which our grand-fathers employed to establish it, and our own fathers have already employed once to maintain it? Are we degenerate? Has the manhood of our race run out? Again, a law may be both constitutional and expedient, and yet may be administered in an unjust and unfair way. This law belongs to a class, which class is composed of those laws whose object is to distribute burthens or benefits on the principle of equality. No one of these laws can ever be practically administered with that exactness which can be conceived of in the mind. A tax law, the principle of which is that each owner shall pay in proproportion [ sic ] to the value of his property, will be a dead letter, if no one can be compelled to pay until it can be shown that every other one will pay in precisely the same proportion according to value; nay even, it will be a dead letter, if no one can be compelled to pay until it is certain that every other one will pay at all---even in unequal proportion. Again the United States House of representatives is constituted on the principle that each member is sent by the same number of people that each other one is sent by; and yet in practice no two of the whole number, much less the whole number, are ever sent by precisely the same number of constituents. The Districts can not be made precisely equal in population at first, and if they could, they would become unequal in a single day, and much more so in the ten years, which the Districts, once made, are to continue. They can not be re-modelled every day; nor, without too much expence and labor, even every year. This sort of difficulty applies in full force, to the practical administration of the draft law. In fact the difficulty is greater in the case of the draft law. First, it starts with all the inequality of the congressional Districts; but these are based on entire population, while the draft is based upon those only who are fit for soldiers, and such may not bear the same proportion to the whole in one District, that they do in another. Again, the facts must be ascertained, and credit given, for the unequal numbers of soldiers which have already gone from the several Districts. In all these points errors will occur in spite of the utmost fidelity. The government is bound to administer the law with such an approach to exactness as is usual in analagous cases, and as entire good faith and fidelity will reach. If so great departures as to be inconsistent with such good faith and fidelity, or great departures occurring in any way, be pointed out, they shall be corrected; and any agent shown to have caused such departures intentionally, shall be dismissed. With these views, and on these principles, I feel bound to tell you it is my purpose to see the draft law faithfully executed.

To James G. Blaine
J. G. Blaine Washington, D.C., Augusta, Maine Sept. 15, 1863
Thanks both for the good news you send, and for the sending of it. A. LINCOLN

To Jesse K. Dubois and Ozias M. Hatch
``Cypher'' Hon. J. K. Dubois & Executive Mansion, Hon. O. M. Hatch Washington, Sept. 15, 1863.
What nation do you desire Gen. Allen to be made Quarter-Master-General of? This nation already has a Quarter-Master-General. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion, Major General Halleck: Washington, Sept. 15. 1863.
If I did not misunderstand Gen. Meade's last despatch, he posts you on facts aswell as he can, and desires your views and those of the government, as to what he shall do. My opinion is that he should move upon Lee at once in manner of general attack, leaving to developments, whether he will make it a real attack. Ithink this would develope Lee's real condition and purposes better than the cavalry alone can do. Of course my opinion is not to control you and Gen. Meade. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Suspending Writ of Habeas Corpus
September 15, 1863
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. Whereas the Constitution of the United States has ordained that the privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended unless when in cases or rebellion or invasion the public safety may require it, And whereas a rebellion was existing on the third day of March, 1863, which rebellion is still existing; and whereas by a statute which was approved on that day, it was enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States in Congress assembled, that, during the present insurrection, the President of the United States, whenever, in his judgment, the Public safety may require, is authorized to suspend the privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus in any case throughout the United States or any part thereof; and whereas in the judgment of the President the public safety does require that the privilege of the said writ shall now be suspended throughout the United States in the cases where, by the authority of the President of the United States, military, naval and civil officers of the United States or any of them hold persons under their command or in their custody either as prisoners of war, spies, or aiders or abettors of the enemy; or officers, soldiers or seamen enrolled or drafted or mustered or enlisted in or belonging to the land or naval forces of the United States or as deserters therefrom or otherwise amenable to military law, or the Rules and Articles of War or the rules or regulations prescribed for the military or naval services by authority of the President of the United States or for resisting a draft or for any other offence against the military or naval service. Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby proclaim and make known to all whom it may concern, that the privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus is suspended throughout the United States in the several cases before mentioned, and that this suspension will continue throughout the duration of the said rebellion, or until this proclamation shall, by a subsequent one to be issued by the President of the United States, be modified or revoked. And I do hereby require all magistrates, attorneys and other civil officers within the United States, and all officers and others in the military and naval services of the United States, to take distinct notice of this suspension, and to give it full effect, and all citizens of the United States to conduct and govern themselves accordingly and in conformity with the Constitution of the United States and the laws of Congress in such case made and provided. [L.S.] In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the Seal of the United States to be affixed, this Fifteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty three and of the Independence of the United States of America the Eighty-eighth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, Sep. 15. 1863.
The bearer of this, Mrs. Craddock, tells me she has a nephew---Edwin Selvage---who was in the rebel service, made a prisoner, and is now at Fort-Delaware; that he has two brothers in the Union Army, is yet under twenty one years of age; and wishes to take the oath of allegiance and be discharged. Upon reasonable proof of all this, let him take the oath and be discharged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Sep. 15, 1863.
It seems that E. Jaquelin Smith, and George Mason, are in the Old Capital Prison. The two cases have no connection; but I would like to have a statement, of each case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 15 and 17, 1863
The within are very good recommendations; and if it can be, consistently with the rules of the service, arranged at the Adjutant General's Office to give the applicant, a Staff-appointment, such as he desires, I am quite satisfied to have it done. I submit the case to the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN Sep. 15. 1863. I can say just as much as the above, & no more, in favor of Major Seeley being appointed a Pay-Master. A. LINCOLN Sep. 17. 1863.

Instructions to Tax Commissioners in South Carolina
September 16, 1863
The Hon: Abraham D. Smith, Hon: William E. Wording, and Hon: William Henry Brisbane, Tax Commissioners for the District of South Carolina: Whereas, you were duly appointed a Board of Tax Commissioners, for the District of South Carolina, wherein by reason of insurrection and rebellion, the civil authority of the Government of the United States, has been and continues to be obstructed, so that the provisions of the act entitled ``An act to provide increased revenue from imports, to pay interest on the public debt, and for ``other purposes,'' approved August. 5. 1861, could not be peaceably executed; and Whereas, heretofore, to wit, in the months of February and March of the present year, you as Commissioners aforesaid caused certain lots and parcels of land situated in the Parish of St. Helena in said State, to be sold for the direct taxes, unpaid and charged on the same: and Whereas, at said sale you struck off to the United States, divers of said lots and parcels of land at certain sums, equal in each case, to at least the tax penalty and costs, and ten per cent interest on said tax charged on each lot or parcel of land respectively; pursuant to public notice therefore given; and Whereas, the owners of said lots and parcels of land so struck off to the United States, have abandoned the same, and have not paid the taxes thereon, nor redeemed them, and Whereas, you have represented to me that you are satisfied that the said owners have left the said lots and parcels of land to engage in and abet the said rebellion. Now therefore, these presents, witness that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, pursuant to the provisions of the Act of Congress, entitled, ``An act for the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts within the United States and for other purposes'' approved on the 7th day of June A.D. 1862, and the amendments thereto, approved on the Sixth day of February A.D. 1863, have issued and hereby do issue these my instructions and directions to you, as the board of Tax Commissioners aforesaid, in the manner and form following, that is to say: First. You will cause the said lands, except such as in these instructions are particularly excepted or provided for, to be surveyed and subdivided and sold at public sale, in parcels not to exceed three hundred and twenty acres to any one purchaser, after giving due notice thereof for sixty days, as upon the sale of other public lands to be sold on the terms prescribed in the eleventh section of the act entitled ``An act for the collection of direct taxes, in insurrectionary districts, within the United States, and for other purposes,'' and of the act amendatory of the same, approved the sixth day of February A.D. 1863. Second. If upon such sale, any person serving in the army or navy or marine corps, shall become a purchaser, and shall pay one fourth part of the purchase money pursuant to the provisions of the said eleventh section of the said act of congress, the said Commissioners shall issue a certificate for the said tract or parcel of land so purchased, subject nevertheless to the payment of the residue of the purchase money in three years from the date of said sale, either in money or in certificates of indebtedness of the United States, and subject also to the condition that he, his heirs or assigns shall commit no waste upon the premises sold: and in case he or they shall fail to pay the residue of the said purchase money, within the time limited for the payment, thereof, or shall at any time prior to the full payment of the purchase money in cash or in certificates of indebtedness as aforesaid, with interest, if any, due upon the same, together with costs, commit any waste, it shall and may be lawful for said Commissioners, or their successors in office, to enter upon the said premises and to sell the same for the payment of the purchase money due the United States, returning the over-plus, if any there shall be, to the said purchaser, his heirs or assigns holding the said land, which conditions shall be fully set out in the certificate of the commissioners. You will cause the plantations on St. Helena Island & known as Lands End, and the Ben. Chaplin place to be laid off and divided into town lots of such size as you may judge proper, not exceeding five acres each, and you will proceed to sell all said lots not needed or selected for Government purposes at public sale, for cash. Or if to any person or persons serving in the army or navy or marine corps, on the terms provided in the 11th section of the act of congress hereinbefore mentioned, and subject to the conditions stated in these instructions in case of sales to such person or persons serving as aforesaid. Prior to making sale of said lots, you will cause the corners of the same to be permanently marked and duplicate plots or drafts of said lots to be made, describing them accurately by metes and bounds thereof, or other definite description, and you will cause said copies to be duly authenticated under your hands, one whereof you will transmit to the office of the Secretary of the Treasury to be filed therein. There are excepted from these instructions to sell parts of the following tracts of land which are reserved for the use of the United States, for war, military, naval, revenue and police purposes: On St. Helena Island, Eddings Point, St. Helenaville, St. Helenaville Co., pine land, Lands End, and the Ben Chaplin place. On Coosaw Island, Coosaw. On Ladies Island, White Hall and Laurel Bay. On Port Royal Island, the Hermitage, the Cottage, the Old Fort, The Farm, Pigeon Point, the Campbell place, the Bell place, Magnolia, and the Middleton Steward place; and On Parrys Island, the Means place. Also, on Hunting Island, and on Phillips Island the woodland tracts deemed necessary for the use of the United States. And you will cause the said parts, so reserved as aforesaid, to be surveyed, and duplicate plots and drafts of the same to be made, describing the same by metes and bounds, or other definite description; one of which plots or drafts, duly authenticated under your hands, you will cause to be filed in the office of the Secretary of the Treasury. You will set apart for school purposes in a convenient from for use as a farm or farms, one or more tracts, (which are hereby excepted from the operation of said instructions to sell) a part or parts of the said land so purchased in (and) by you and belonging to the United States as aforesaid, not exceeding 160 acres in each, and including such dwelling house or houses and out buildings, as may be upon either of the following named plantations, on St. Helena Island---The Oaks, Indian Hill, The Thomas James Tripp place, Cedar Grove, the McTurens lands, Frogmore, the Frank Prichard place, the Oliver Tripp place, the Wallace place, and Eddings Point, and the whole of the Thomas B. Chaplin place, the Grove, and the Baker place. On Coosaw Island, Coosaw, On Ladies Island---Orange Grove, White Hall, the James Chaplin place, including the Saxby Chaplin lot, Pleasant Point, the John Johnson place, Springfield, the Williams place and the Capers place; On Port Royal Island---the Cottage, the Old Fort, Swamp Place, Halfway House, Gray Hill, the the [ sic ] Middleton Stuart place, Oak Mulligan, Little Baynard, the Rhett Place, Laurel Bay and the Thompson place, and on Parry's Island---the Fuller place and the Means place. You will cause the parts of the said tracts and parcels of land so set apart as aforesaid to be surveyed and accurately described by metes and bounds or other definite description, and the corners thereof, to be permanently marked, and duplicate plots and drafts of the same to be made and duly authenticated under your hands, one copy of which you will cause to be filed in the office of the Secretary of the Treasury. The lands so set apart you will let and lease for such terms not exceeding five years, and on such conditions as you may deem eligible, reserving the rents and issues thereof to yourselves and your successors in office, and you will take receive and collect such rents and issues and appropriate and apply the same to the education of colored youths, and of such poor white persons, being minors, as may by themselves, parents, guardians, or next friends, apply for the benefit thereof, and you are authorized to establish such schools, and to direct the tuition of such branches of learning as you in your judgment shall deem most eligible, subject nevertheless to the general direction and control of the Secretary of the Treasury. And there is also excepted and reserved out of and from the said lands so purchased by the United States, and directed to be sold as aforesaid, all parts of the following tracts of land not otherwise appropriated, to wit: On St. Helena Island, the Oaks, Oakland, Indian Hill, Eddings point, The Thomas James Tripp place, Cedar Grove, The Hamilton Tripp place, the McTurens lands, Hope place, Woodstock, Frogmore, the Frank Prichard place, the Jane Prichard place, the Scott place, the Oliver Tripp place[,] the Wallace place, the Fendon place. On Coosaw Island, Coosaw and Corn Island; On Ladies' Island, Orange Grove, the Hazel Farm, White Hall, the James Chaplin place, Pleasant Point, the John Johnson place, Springfield, Laurel Bay, the Williams place, and the Capers place. On Port Royal Island---the Farm, the Old Fort, Polly's Grove, the Bell place, the Campbell place, the Swamp place, Halfway House, Grays Hill, Magnolia, the Middleton Stuart place, Oak Mulligan, the John F Chaplin place, Oakland, Little Baynard, Jericho, the Oswald place, the Ellis place, the Rhett place, and Laurel Bay, and on Parry's Island, the Fuller place, the Elliott place No 1. The Elliott place No. 2[,] the El[l]iott place No. 3, and the Means place And you will cause the same to be surveyed and to be particularly described by metes and bounds or other definite description, and to be divided into lots and parcels not exceeding twenty acres each, corners of which you will cause to be permanently designated by stones planted, or by marked trees or other suitable monuments. In case of irregularity in the boundaries of tracts or plantations, between those which have been or may be selected for specific purposes, and those which are not so selected, you will not be strictly limited to such boundaries but may conform the division to the general lines of the new survey. And you will cause accurate plots or drafts of the surveys to be made, exhibiting the said subdivisions of twenty acres each, duly authenticated under your hands, one whereof shall be filed in the office of the Secretary of the Treasury. You are further directed to issue certificates for the said lots and parcels of land to the heads of families of the African race, one only to each, preferring such as by their good conduct, meritorious services or exemplary character, will be examples of moral propriety and industry to those of the same race, for the charitable purpose of providing homes for such heads of families and their families respectively, so as to give them an interest in the soil, and to form an industrial settlement of worthy persons of said race, they the said heads of families paying to the Commissioners such sum not less than $1.25 per acre as the said commissioners shall designate and determine as proper to be charged for the said lands, in view of the charitable purposes aforesaid. And you are further instructed to announce in your advertisement of the sale of said lands so directed to be sold as aforesaid, that the same will be set up for sale at $1.25 an acre each, and that the same will not be sold unless the bids advance beyond that price. Where any tracts or lots of land have erected thereon dwelling houses, barns or other out houses, you will appraise the same at what you deem the cash value thereof, and in case the said lots or tracts of land on which the said buildings are erected shall fail when offered for sale as aforesaid to be bid up to a sum equal to one third part of the appraised value thereof, you will cause the same to be withdrawn from sale, and to be readvertised and again offered for sale as soon as conveniently practicable on the same conditions as are stated in these instructions. In order to enable you so to protect the interests of the United States, you will in your written conditions of sale reserve a single bid to be publicly made by the Commissioners or by their authority of such a sum as you may deem eligible not less than one third of the appraised value. In case on a third attempt, you shall fail to sell such lands as may be offered for sale as aforesaid, or any of them, after again advertising them as above directed, you will sell them to the highest bidder, if the Secretary of the Treasury shall so direct, upon report to him of your proceedings. You will keep a book or books, in which you will enter or cause to be entered, full descriptions of the said lands so to be surveyed as aforesaid, with a draft or plot of each survey, exhibiting the subdivisions, if any, and you shall also make an entry therein of each tract and lot sold, with the name of the purchaser, and the sum for which the same may be sold, the date of the sale, and the date of the issuing of the certificates to the purchasers, and you shall also particularly describe and set out in said book the tracts reserved for the use of the United States for military, naval, revenue and police purposes, and the tract or tracts also set apart for school purposes, and you will make an entry of each tract for which a certificate shall be given to any colored citizen, being the head of a family as aforesaid, together with the name of such head of family and the sum of money with which he shall be charged for any lot for which a certificate shall be given him and the date of the issue of such certificate, and you will cause transcripts of said book or books duly verified by you, to be filed in the office of the Secretary of the Treasury, and when your commission shall expire you shall cause said book or books to be filed in said office. You will also sell at public sale after giving notice as aforesaid, all the lots and buildings in the town of Beaufort and State aforesaid struck off to the United States, at such sale and not redeemed. Prior to making such sale you will appraise the said lots and buildings at their cash value, and in case any of the same on being offered for sale shall not be bid to one third of the appraised value, you will cause the same to be with-drawn from sale, and upon being advertised to be again offered for sale, and if after being so advertised and offered a third time for sale, it shall fail to be bid to one fifth of its appraised value, you will sell the same to the highest bidder, if on report of your proceedings to the Secretary of the Treasury, he shall deem it eligible so to do. The conditions of sale in each case shall be the same as those above stated in relation to the plantations or tracts of land to be sold pursuant to these instructions. In your conditions of sale of the said town of Beaufort, you are authorized to protect the interests of the United States by reserving a bid on each or any of the said lots or buildings, to be made by the Commissioners or by some one by their authority, to be publicly made, for such sum as you may deem proper. Witness, my hand, this 16th. day of September AD. 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Warrenton, Va Washington, Sep. 16, 1863.
Is Albert Jones, of Co. K. 3rd. Maryland volunteers, to be shot on Friday next? If so, please state to me the general features of the case. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

This was presented some time last November. Will the Sec. of State please prepare a suitable answer to it? A. LINCOLN Sep. 16. 1863.

To Mrs. Joshua F. Speed
Mrs. J. F. Speed Washington, DC. Louisville, Ky. Sep. 16. 1863
Mr. Holman will not be jostled from his place, with my knowledge and consent A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase

Sec. of Treasury. Please see Mr. Church and Mr. Farwell, very respectable gentlemen of Illinois. A. LINCOLN Sept. 17. 1863

Draft of Order Concerning Writ of Habeas Corpus
[September 17, 1863]
Please order each Military officer of the United States, that, whenever he shall have in his custody any person, by the authority of the United States and any writ of habeas corpus shall be served upon him, commanding him to produce such person before any court or judge, he, the said Military officer, make known to the court or judge issuing such writ, by a proper return thereto, that he holds such person by the authority of the President of the United States, acting as the Commander-in-Chief, of the Army of the United States in time of actual rebellion and war against the United States; and that, thereupon he do not produce such person according said writ, but that he deal with him according to the orders of his military superiors; and that, having made known to such court or judge, the cause of holding said person as aforesaid, if said court or judge, shall issue any process for his, said officer's, arrest, he refuse obedience thereto; and that, in case there shall be any attempt, to take such person from the custody of such officer, or to arrest such officer, he resist such attempt, calling to his aid any force that may be necessary to make such resistance effectual.

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Washington, Headquarters Army of Potomac: September 17, 1863.
Yours in relation to Albert Jones is received. I am appealed to in behalf of Richard M. Abrams of Company A, Sixth New Jersey Volunteers, by Governor Parker, Attorney-General Freeling-hoysen,  Governor Newell, Hon. Mr. Middleton,  M.C., of the district and the marshal who arrested him. I am also appealed to in behalf of Joseph S. Smith, of Company A, Eleventh New Jersey Volunteers, by Governor Parker, Attorney-General Freelinghoysen, and Hon. Marcus C. Ward.  Please state the circumstances of their cases to me. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum: Appointment of John Pitman, Jr.

I have quite a strong desire for young Pitman to be appointed. Sep. 17. 1863. A. LINCOLN

Recommendation
September 17, 1863
This lady says she has a mother but no father living; that she has two brothers, both in the Army. She wants employment, and I shall be glad if any of the Departments or Bureaus can give it to her. A. LINCOLN Sep. 17. 1863.

To Robert C. Schenck
Major General Schenck Executive Mansion, Baltimore, Md. Washington, Sep. 17, 1863.
Major Haynor left here several days ago, under a promise to put down in writing, in detail, the facts in relation to the misconduct of the people on the Eastern Shore of Virginia. He has not returned. Please send him over. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Washington, Sept. 17, 1863
A lady called as the wife of John S. Struthers, a Captain in the 13th Peny. Vol. Cavalry, and urges that he may be allowed to resign. She has not a resignation with her. If she had, I would be for accepting it, on the general principle, that we are rapidly getting an over proportion of officers. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Hannah Armstrong
Mrs. Hannah Armstrong Washington, Petersburg, Illinois. Sep. 18. 1863
I have just ordered the discharge of your boy William, as you say, now at Louisville, Ky. A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew Johnson
`` Cypher '' Hon. Andrew Johnson Executive Mansion, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, Sept. 18, 1863.
Despatch of yesterday just received. I shall try to find the paper you mention, and carefully consider it. In the mean time let me urge that you do your utmost to get every man you can, black and white, under arms at the very earliest moment, to guard roads, bridges and trains, allowing all the better trained soldiers to go forward to Rosecrans. Of course I mean for you to act in co-operation with, and not independently of, the military authorities. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Joseph J. Gillespie

I would like for my friend Gillespie to be obliged in this matter whenever it can be done. A. LINCOLN Sep. 18. 1863

To Isaac N. Morris
Hon. I. N. Morris. Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Sep. 18, 1863.
Please carefully put the argument in writing, with reference to authorities, in the matter intended to show that the law gives an appeal to me, in the case referred to. When that is ready to be presented, I will try to give you the personal interview about Illinois matters generally. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Lewis H. Cox, Alias John M. Dillon
Executive Mansion, Washington, Sep. 18th. 1863.
It is represented to me that Lewis H. Cox, Quarter-master Sergeant in the 8th. Pennsylvania Cavalry, being in hospital at Baltimore, recently, was induced to go to Philadelphia, and receive pay, and enter, as a substitute, in Co. D. in the 111th. Pennsylvania Volunteers, under the name of John M. Dillon; and, without being arrested, or detected, has himself confessed his fault, and expressed his wish to atone for it, in the best way he can, to his father, who calls on me. Now, in case he shall faithfully perform his whole duty, according to his enlistment in the said 111th. Pennsylvania Regiment, upon that condition he is fully pardoned for the offense aforesaid. A. LINCOLN [Endorsement] Thinking it was better to have this young man for three years, than to shoot him, or even to have him for the remaining one year in the old regiment, I gave his father the paper, of which the within is a copy. I send it to the Department, in order that a proper note, or entry may be made on the roll of the 8th. Penn. Cavalry. Sep. 18. 1863 A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for H. Littlefield
September 18, 1863
I personally know H. Littlefield to be a true and reliable man. A. LINCOLN

To Clark M. Smith
C. M. Smith, Esq Washington D.C. Springfield, Illinois Sep. 18. 1863.
Why not name him for the General you fancy most? This is my suggestion. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Sept. 18, 1863.
Gov. Johnson, of Tenn. in his despatch, mentions a paper which he says he drew up, on re-organization, which I indorsed in some way, & which I understand him to suppose is on file in your Department. If it is there, please send me a copy of it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Sept. 18. 1863.
Please cause a statement to be made to me in regard to the Mustering out of service of Col. George P. Ihrie, who was upon Gen. Grant's Staff. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Major General Banks Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Sept. 19, 1863.
In strong hope that you have the old flag flying in Texas by this time, we are about sending Gen [Andrew J.]  Hamilton to act as Military Governor there. I believe you know him; but it can do no harm for me to say I really believe him to be a man of worth and ability; and one who, by his acquaintance there, can scarcely fail to be efficient in re-inaugurating the National authority. He has suffered so long and painful an exile from his home and family that I feel a deep sympathy for him; and I scarcely need say I am sure he has received, and will receive the same from you. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Hughey Gallagher
Hughey Gallagher Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, Pa. Sept. 19 1863
I know nothing as to John Gallagher. The law does not require this class of cases to come before me, and they do not come, unless brought by the friends of the condemned. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion Major General Halleck: Washington, Sept. 19. 1863.
By Gen. Meade's despatch to you of yesterday it appears that he desires your views and those of the government, as to whether he shall advance upon the enemy. I am not prepared to order, or even advise an advance in this case, wherein I know so little of particulars, and wherein he, in the field, thinks the risk is so great, and the promise of advantage so small. And yet the case presents matter for very serious consideration in another aspect. These two armies confront each other across a small river, substantially midway between the two Capitals, each defending it's own Capital, and menacing the other. Gen. Meade estimates the enemies infantry in front of him at not less than forty thousand. Suppose we add fifty per cent to this, for cavalry, artillery, and extra duty men stretching as far as Richmond, making the whole force of the enemy sixty thousand. Gen. Meade, as shown by the returns, has with him, and between him and Washington, of the same classes of well men, over ninety thousand. Neither can bring the whole of his men into a battle; but each can bring as large a per centage in as the other. For a battle, then, Gen. Meade has three men to Gen. Lee's two. Yet, it having been determined that choosing ground, and standing on the defensive, gives so great advantage that the three can not safely attack the two, the three are left simply standing on the defensive also. If the enemies sixty thousand are sufficient to keep our ninety thousand away from Richmond, why, by the same rule, may not forty thousand of ours keep their sixty thousand away from Washington, leaving us fifty thousand to put to some other use? Having practically come to the mere defensive, it seems to be no economy at all to employ twice as many men for that object as are needed. With no object, certainly, to misle[a]d myself, I can perceive no fault in this statement, unless we admit we are not the equal of the enemy man for man. I hope you will consider it. To avoid misunderstanding, let me say that to attempt to fight the enemy slowly back into his intrenchments at Richmond, and there to capture him, is an idea I have been trying to repudiate for quite a year. My judgment is so clear against it, that I would scarcely allow the attempt to be made, if the general in command should desire to make it. My last attempt upon Richmond was to get McClellan, when he was nearer there than the enemy was, to run in ahead of him. Since then I have constantly desired the Army of the Potomac, to make Lee's army, and not Richmond, it's objective point. If our army can not fall upon the enemy and hurt him where he is, it is plain to me it can gain nothing by attempting to follow him over a succession of intrenched lines into a fortified city. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Private Hon. Andrew Johnson. Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Washington, D.C. Sept. 19. 1863
Herewith I send you a paper, substantially the same as the one, drawn up by yourself,  and mentioned in your despatch, but slightly changed in two particulars. First, yours was so drawn as that I authorized you to carry into effect the fourth Section &c. whereas I so modify it as to authorize you to so act as to require the United States to carry into effect that Section. Secondly, you had a clause committing me, in some sort to the State constitution of Tennessee, which I feared might embarrass you in making a new constitution if you desire. So I dropped that clause. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Executive Mansion Hon. Andrew Johnson Washington D.C. Military Governor of Tennessee Sept. 19. 1863.
In addition to the matters contained in the orders and instructions given you by the Secretary of War,  FOOTNOTES}>(2) you are hereby authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary and proper to enable the loyal people of Tennessee to present such a republican form of State government, as will entitle the State to the guaranty of the United States therefor, and to be protected under such State government, by the United States against invasion and domestic violence, all according to the fourth Section of the fourth Article of the constitution of the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Washington, D.C., New-York. Sep. 20 1863
I neither see nor hear anything of sickness here now; though there may be much without my knowing it. I wish you to stay, or come just as is most agreeable to yourself. A. LINCOLN.

Recommendation for Mr. Hall
September 20, 1863
I personally know Mr. Hall to be a very worthy and deserving man; and if a man is to be taken from so distant a locality as Springfield, a more proper man than Mr. Hall cannot be found. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
``Cypher'' Gen. Burnside Washington City, Knoxville, Tenn Sep. 21. 2.AM 1863
Go to Rosecrans with your force, without a moment delay. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Gen. Burnside Washington, D.C., Greenville, Tenn. Sept 21, 1863 [11 A.M.]
If you are to do any good to Rosecrans it will not do to waste time with Jonesboro. It is already too late to do the most good that might have been done, but I hope it will still do some good. Please do not lose a moment. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion Major General Halleck Washington, D.C. Sep. 21. 1863
I think it very important for Gen. Rosecrans to hold his position, at or about Chattanooga, because, if held from that place to Cleveland, both inclusive, it keeps all Tennessee clear of the enemy, and also breaks one of his most important Railroad lines. To prevent these consequences, is so vital to his cause, that he can not give up the effort to dislodge us from the position, thus bringing him to us, and saving us the labor, expence, and hazard of going further to find him; and also giving us the advantage of choosing our own ground, and preparing it, to fight him upon. The details must of course be left to Gen. Rosecrans, while we must furnish him the means to the utmost of our ability. If you concur, I think he would better be informed, that we are not pushing him beyond this position; and that, in fact, our judgment is rather against his going beyond it. If he can only maintain this position, without more, the rebellion can only eke out a short and feeble existence, as an animal sometimes may with a thorn in its vitals. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A Lincoln Washington, D.C., Fifth Avenue Hotel New-York Sept. 21. 1863
The air is so clear and cool, and apparantly healthy, that I would be glad for you to come. Nothing very particular, but I would be glad [to] see you and Tad. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Washington, D.C., Army of Potomac Sep. 21. 1863
I am appealed to in behalf John H. Williams Co. D. 4 Regt. Md Vols, 1 Corps who is said to be under sentence of death to be executed on the 25th. for desertion. The appeal is made on the ground of unsoundness of mind. Please give me briefly the facts and your views A. LINCOLN

To Francis H. Peirpoint
Governor Pierpoint Washington, D.C., Alexandria, Va. Sep. 21. 1863
I would be glad to have your opinion whether it would be good policy to refund the money collected from the people of East Virginia, as indemnity for the Light-House depredation. I believe you once gave me your opinion on the point, but I am not entirely sure. Please answer. A. LINCOLN.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major Gen. Rosecrans Washington, D.C., Chattanooga Tenn. Sep 21. 12.35 AM 1863
Be of good cheer. We have unabated confidence in you, and in your soldiers and officers. In the main you must be the judge as to what is to be done. If I were to suggest, I would say, save your army, by taking strong positions, until Burnside joins you, when I hope you can turn the tide. I think you had better send a courier to Burnside to hurry him up. We can not reach him by Telegraph. We suppose some force is going to you from Corinth, but for want of communication, we do not know how they are getting along. We shall do our utmost to assist you. Send us your present posting.  A. LINCOLN

To Ozias M. Hatch and Jesse K. Dubois
Hon O. M. Hatch & Hon. J. K. Dubois: Executive Mansion, Springfield, Ills. Washington, Sep. 22, 1863.
Your letter is just received. The particular form of my despatch was jocular, which I supposed you gentlemen knew me well enough to understand. Gen. Allen is considered here as a very faithful and capable officer; and one who would be at least thought of for Quarter-Master-General if that office were vacant A. LINCOLN.

To Herman Kretz
Military Officer in Command Executive Mansion, at Cumberland, Md. Washington, Sep. 22. 1863.
It is represented to me that one Dennis McCarty, is at Cumberland under sentence of death, but that the time is not yet fixed for his execution. Please answer, telling me whether this statement is correct, and also if an order shall come to you for his execution, notify me of it at once by telegraph. A. LINCOLN.

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln. Executive Mansion, Washington, Fifth Avenue House New-York. Sep. 22, 1863.
Did you receive my despatch of yesterday? Mrs. Cuthbert did not correctly understand me. I directed her to tell you to use your own pleasure whether to stay or come; and I did not say it is sickly & that you should on no account come. So far as I see or know, it was never healthier, and I really wish to see you. Answer this on receipt. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
``Cypher'' Major General Rosecrans Washington, D.C., Chattanooga, Tenn. Sep. 22. 1863 [8:30 A.M.]
We have not a word here as to the whereabouts or condition of your Army, up to a later point than Sunset Sunday the 20th. Your despatches to me of 9. A.M. and to Gen. Halleck of 2. PM. yesterday tell us nothing later on those points. Please relieve my anxiety as to the position & condition of your army up to the latest moment. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas Daines
Thomas Daines Executive Mansion, Indianapolis, Ia. Washington, Sep. 23. 1863.
Forward your petition, and record of trial immediately. There is time for them to reach [me] before the 1st. of next month. A. LINCOLN

To Robert A. Maxwell
`` Cypher '' Robert A. Maxwell Executive Mansion, New-York Washington, Sep. 23. 1863.
I hasten to say that in the State of information we have here, nothing could be more ungraceous than to indulge any suspicion towards Gen. Thomas. It is doubtful whether his heroism and skill exhibited last sunday afternoon, has ever been surpassed in the world. A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery C. Meigs

I am quite willing to concur in any promotion of Capt. McClure which can be consistently made at the War Department. Sept. 23, 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major Gen. Rosecrans Washington, D.C., Chattanooga, Tenn. Sep. 23 1863
Below is Bragg's despatch,  as found [in] the Richmond papers. You see he does not claim so many prisoners or captured guns, as you were inclined to concede. He also confesses to heavy loss. An  exchanged General of ours leaving Richmond yesterday says two of Longstreets Divisions, & his entire Artillery, and two of Picketts brigades, and Wies'  legion, have gone to Tennessee. He mentions no other. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Secretary of War, please have the Judge Advocate General examine & report upon this case. A. LINCOLN Sep. 23. 1863.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. Sept. 24, 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Andrew G. Curtin
His Excellency A. G. Curtin Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Sep. 24, 1863.
The Secretary of War tells me the claims for draft expences of last year, have been paid, except a few of questionable fairness; and that the appropriation, the amount of which I think he says was fixed by yourself, has been almost entirely expended. The reasonable requests you speak of we are complying with as nearly as we can. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln, Washington, D.C., Fifth Avenue Hotel New York--- Sep. 24 1863
We now have a tolerably accurate summing up of the late battle between Rosecrans and Bragg. The result is that we are worsted, if at all, only in the fact that we, after the main fighting was over, yielded the ground, thus leaving considerable of our artillery and wounded to fall into the enemies' hands, for which we got nothing in turn. We lost, in general officers, one killed, and three or four wounded, all Brigadiers; while according to rebel accounts, which we have, they lost six killed, and eight wounded. Of the killed, one Major Genl. and five Brigadiers, including your brother-in-law, Helm;  and of the wounded, three Major Generals, and five Brigadiers. This list may be reduced two in number, by correction of confusion in names. At 11/40 A.M. yesterday Gen. Rosecrans telegraph[ed] from Chattanooga ``We hold this point, and I can not be dislodged, except by very superior numbers, and after a great battle'' A despatch leaving there after night yesterday says, ``No fight to-day'' A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, September 24, 1863.
I am appealed to in favor of a private (name not remembered) in Company D, First Regiment New Jersey Volunteers, in Sixth Corps, who is said to be under sentence to be shot to-morrow. Please give me briefly the facts of the case, including his age and your opinion on it. A. LINCOLN. P.S. Also give me a like statement in the case of Daniel Sullivan, of Thirteenth Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteers, First Army Corps. A. LINCOLN.

Proclamation Opening the Port of Alexandria, Virginia
September 24, 1863
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, in my Proclamation of the twenty-seventh of April, 1861, the ports of the States of Virginia and North Carolina, were, for reasons therein set forth, placed under blockade; and whereas the port of Alexandria, Virginia, has since been blockaded; but as the blockade of said port may now be safely relaxed with advantage to the interests of commerce: Now, therefore, be it known, that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, pursuant to the authority in me vested by the fifth section of the act of Congress, approved on the 13th of July, 1861, entitled ``An act further to provide for the collection of duties on imports, and for other purposes,'' do hereby declare that the blockade of the said port of Alexandria, shall so far cease and determine, from and after this date, that commercial intercourse with said port, except as to persons, things, and information contraband of war, may, from this date, be carried on, subject to the laws of the United States, and to the limitations and in pursuance of the regulations which are prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury in his order which is appended to my proclamation of the 12th. of May, 1862. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this Twenty-fourth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the Eighty-eighth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

Recommendation for Belle Garcia

I personally know nothing of this young lady, but upon Senator Hale's statement, I very cheerfully join in his recommendation. Sep. 24. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Washington, D.C., Chattanooga, Tenn. Sept. 24. 10 A.M. 1863
Last night we received the rebel accounts, through Richmond papers, of your late battle. They give Major Genl. Hood, as mortally wounded,  and Brigaders Preston Smith, Woolford, Walthall, Helm, of Ky, and Deshler killed;  and Major Generals Preston, Cleburne and Greeg,  and Brig. Generals Benning, Adams, Bunn, Brown, and John Helm, wounded.  By confusion, the two Helms may be the same man, and Bunn and Brown may be the same man. With Burnside, Sherman, and from elsewhere, we shall get to you, from forty to sixty thousand additional men. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 24, 1863
I shall be personally obliged if the Sec. of War can find a place at West Point, for George W. Miller, named within, at once or very soon. A. LINCOLN. Sept. 24, 1863 Care of Hon. P. G. Watson.

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, War Department, Washington, D.C., Major General Burnside Sep. 25. 1863
Yours of the 23rd. is just received, and it makes me doubt whether I am awake or dreaming. I have been struggling for ten days, first through Gen. Halleck, and then directly, to get you to go to assist Gen. Rosecrans in an extremity, and you have repeatedly declared you would do it, and yet you steadily move the contrary way. On the 19th. you telegraph once from Knoxville, and twice from Greenville, acknowledging receipt of order, and saying you will hurry support to Rosecrans. On the 20th. you telegraph again from Knoxville, saying you will do all you can, and are hurrying troops to Rosecrans. On the 21st. you telegraph from Morristown, saying you will hurry support to Rosecrans; and now your despatch of the 23rd. comes in from Carter's Station, still farther away from Rosecrans, still saying you will assist him, but giving no account of any progress made towards assisting him You came in upon the Tennessee River at Kingston, Loudon, and Knoxville; and what bridges or the want of them upon the Holston, can have to do in getting the troops towards Rosecrans at Chattanooga is incomprehensible. They were already many miles nearer Chattanooga than any part of the Holston river is, and on the right side of it. If they are now on the wrong side of it, they can only have got so by going from the direction of Chattanooga, and that too, since you have assured us you would move to Chattanooga; while it would seem too, that they could re-cross the Holston, by whatever means they crossed it going East.

To Salmon P. Chase
September 25, 1863
Within is a claim for the price of 1100 bales of cotten, alledged to have been delivered to the agents of the government & converted into money Will the Sec. of the Treasury please examine the claim? A. LINCOLN Ser. 25. 1863.

To Daniel C. McCallum
Gen. McCallum. Washington, D.C., Alexandria, Va Sep. 25. 1863
I have sent to Gen. Meade, by telegraph, to suspend the execution of Daniel Sullivan, of Co. E, 13. Mass. which was to to [ sic ] be to-day; but understanding there is an interruption on the line, may I beg you to send this to him, by the quickest mode in your power? A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Washington, D.C., Army of Potomac Sep. 25. 1863
Owing to the press in behalf of Daniel Sullivan, Co. E. 13 Mass. and the doubt, though small, which you express of his guilty intention, I have concluded to say, let his execution be suspended till further order, & copy of record sent me. A. LINCOLN.

To Robert C. Schenck
Major General Schenck Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Md. Sep. 25 1863
Please send Major Hayner over now. A LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Army of the Potomac Washington, Sep. 26. 1863.
I am appealed to in behalf of Adam Wolf, private in Co. H. 13th. Mass. Regt. Please answer as you have done in other cases. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Henry M. Naglee
September 26, 1863
A curious coincidence occured in the relieving of Gen Negley [Naglee]---towit, that the Secretarys order relieving him, and Gen. Foster's request to have him relieved were simultaneous, & independent of each other. I do not know what Foster's reason was; but I understand Stantons to be that Negley was disinclined to raise colored troops, and he, S, wanted some one there who would take to it more heartily. A. LINCOLN Sep. 26. 1863.

To Gideon Welles

Hon. Sec. of Navy, please see the bearer, Mrs. Peters. Sept. 26, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside Washington, D.C., Knoxville, Tenn. Sep. 27 1863
Your despatch just received. My order to you meant simply that you should save Rosecrans from being crushed out, believing if he lost his position, you could not hold East Tennessee in any event; and that if he held his position, East Tennessee was substantially safe in any event. This despatch is in no sense an order. Gen. Halleck will answer you fully. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Rosecrans [Burnside]. Washington, D.C., Knoxville, Tenn. Sep. 27 1863
It was suggested to you, not ordered, that you should move to Rosecrans on the North side of the river, because it was believed the enemy would not permit you to join him if you should move on the South side. Hold your present positions, and send Rosecrans what you can spare, in the quickest and safest way. In the mean time, hold the remainder as nearly in readiness to go to him as you can consistently with the duty it is to perform while it remains. East Tennesse can be no more than temporarily lost, so long as Chattanooga is firmly held. A LINCOLN

To Horatio Ames
Mr. Horatio Ames Executive Mansion, Washington, Falls Village  Connecticut September 28, 1863.
If you will, on or before the first day of March 1864,  within the state of Connecticut, or at any point nearer this city, produce fifteen guns, each of capacity to carry a missile of at least one hundred pounds weight, and notify me thereof, I will cause some person or persons to examine and test said guns; and if, upon such examination and test, it shall be the opinion of such person or persons, that said guns, or any of them, are, on the whole better guns, than any of like calibre heretofore, or now, in use in the United States, I will on account of the United States, accept said guns, or so many thereof as shall be so favorably reported on, and advise that you be paid for all so accepted, at the rate of Eighty five cents per pound, avoirdupois weight, of said guns so accepted; it being understood that I have no public money at my control, with which I could make such payment absolutely. Yours &c. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum
[September 28, 1863]
If Horatio Ames will make ten wrought iron guns after his method, which shall answer satisfactorily such tests as I shall order, I will see that he gets paid $1 per pound for each gun. A. LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please send me the papers by my Messenger. Sep. 28. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside Washington, D.C., Knoxville, Tenn. Sept. 28, 8. AM. 1863
You can perhaps communicate with Gen. Rosecrans more rapidly by sending telegrams to him at Chattanooga. Think of it. I send a like despatch to him. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Washington, D.C., Chattanooga, Tenn. Sep. 28. 8.A.M. 1863
You can, perhaps, communicate with Gen. Burnside more rapidly by sending telegrams directly to him at Knoxville. Think of it. I send a like despatch to him. A LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion, My Dear General Rosecrans Washington, September 28, 1863.
We are sending you two small corps, one under General Howard, and one under General Slocum, and the whole under General Hooker. Unfortunately the relations between Generals Hooker and Slocum are not such as to promise good, if their present relative positions remain. Therefore let me beg,---almost enjoin upon you---that on their reaching you, you will make a transposition by which Gen. Slocum with his corps, may pass from under the command of Gen. Hooker, and Gen. Hooker, in turn, receive some other equal force. It is important for this to be done, though we could not well arrange it here. Please do it. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

Reply to Sons of Temperance
September 29, 1863
As a matter of course, it will not be possible for me to make a response coextensive with the address which you have presented to me. If I were better known than I am, you would not need to be told that in the advocacy of the cause of temperance you have a friend and sympathizer in me. [Applause.] When I was a young man, long ago, before the Sons of Temperance as an organization, had an existence, I in an humble way, made temperance speeches, [applause] and I think I may say that to this day I have never, by my example, belied what I then said. [Loud applause.] In regard to the suggestions which you make for the purpose of the advancement of the cause of temperance in the army, I cannot make particular responses to them at this time. To prevent intemperance in the army is even a part of the articles of war. It is part of the law of the land---and was so, I presume, long ago---to dismiss officers for drunkenness. I am not sure that consistently with the public service, more can be done than has been done. All, therefore, that I can promise you is, (if you will be pleased to furnish me with a copy of your address) to have it submitted to the proper Department  and have it considered, whether it contains any suggestions which will improve the cause of temperance and repress the cause of drunkenness in the army any better than it is already done. I can promise no more than that. I think that the reasonable men of the world have long since agreed that intemperance is one of the greatest, if not the very greatest of all evils amongst mankind. That is not a matter of dispute, I believe. That the disease exists, and that it is a very great one is agreed upon by all. The mode of cure is one about which there may be differences of opinion. You have suggested that in an army---our army---drunkenness is a great evil, and one which, while it exists to a very great extent, we cannot expect to overcome so entirely as to leave [have?] such successes in our arms as we might have without it. This undoubtedly is true, and while it is, perhaps, rather a bad source to derive comfort from, nevertheless, in a hard struggle, I do not know but what it is some consolation to be aware that there is some intemperance on the other side, too, and that they have no right to beat us in physical combat on that ground. [Laughter and applause.] But I have already said more than I expected to be able to say when I began, and if you please to hand me a copy of your address it shall be considered. I thank you very heartily, gentlemen, for this call, and for bringing with you these very many pretty ladies. 

To Orlando B. Willcox
Officer in command at Executive Mansion Indianapolis, Ia. Washington, D.C. Sep. 29. 1863
Please suspend execution of Adam Daines till further order from me. A. LINCOLN

To Francis S. Corkran
Hon. Francis S. Corkaron Executive Mansion, Baltimore, Md. Washington, Sep. 30. 1863.
Mrs. L. is now at home & would be pleased to see you any time. If the grape time has not passed away, she would be pleased to join in the enterprize you mentioned. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum Concerning James Dillon
September 30, 1863
I find the papers presented for the pardon of James Dillon, has nothing from the Judge, Jury, or Attorney who tried him, and no record of the trial, containing the evidence upon which he was convicted. Unless something more definite is presented, I will have to dismiss the application. A. LINCOLN Sep. 30. 1863.

To John M. Schofield
Gen. Schofield Executive Mansion. St. Louis, Mo--- Washington, DC. Sep. 30. 1863
Following despatch just received: Union Men Driven Out of Missouri.  Leavenworth, Sept. 29.---Governor Gamble having authorized Colonel Moss,  of Liberty, Mo., to arm the men in Platte and Clinton counties, he has armed mostly the returned Rebel soldiers and men under bonds. Moss' men are now driving the Union men out of Missouri. Over one hundred families crossed the river to-day. Many of the wives of our Union soldiers have been compelled to leave. Four or five Union men have been murdered by Colonel Moss' men. Please look to this; and if true, in whole or part put a stop to it. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 30, 1863
This Address was presented to me yesterday by the ``Sons of Temperance'' and I promised to submit to the War Department, in order that the suggestions therein, as to the Army, may be considered, and adopted if thought to be expedient A. LINCOLN Sep. 30. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
The Secretary of War: Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, September 30, 1863.
I believe Col. Halpine to be a most capable and deserving officer, and hope that his request may be granted if it can be, consistently with the interests of the service. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 30, 1863
I personally know Col. McConnell, named within, to be a sterling man; and I shall be obliged if he can be mustered in by special order.

Appointment of Springer Harbaugh
Executive Mansion, Washington, October, 1863.
By virtue of the authority conferred upon me, by the first section of the act of Congress of the United States being the act entitled ``An act to aid in the construction of a RailRoad and Telegraph Line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the Government the use of the same for Postal Military and other purposes'' approved July 1st 1862, Springer Harbaugh of Pennsylvania is hereby appointed a Director, on the part of the Government of the United States, of the Union and Pacific RailRoad Company. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Augustus W. Bradford
Gov. Bradford Washington City, D.C. Baltimore, Md. Oct. 1. 1863.
Please be here in person at 12.M. Saturday to fix up definitely in writing, the matter about which Mr. Johnson & Gov. Hicks brings a communication from you. A. LINCOLN Please repeat to Anapolis. A L.

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade: October 1, 1863.
Let respite of ten days be granted to Herman Barber, alias E. W. Von Heinecke, sentenced to be shot to-morrow for desertion. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Send by telegraph at once.

To John M. Schofield
Executive Mansion Gen. John M. Schofield Washington, D.C. Oct. 1. 1863.
There is no organized military force in avowed opposition to the general government, now in Missouri; and if any such shall reappear, your duty in regard to it will be too plain to require any special instruction. Still the condition of things, both there and elsewhere, is such as to render it indispensable to maintain for a time, the United States Military establishment in that State, as well as to rely upon it for a fair contribution of support to that establishment generally. Your immediate duty, in regard to Missouri, now is to advance the efficiency of that establishment, and to so use it, as far as practicable, to compel the excited people there to leave one another alone. Under your recent order, which I have approved, you will only arrest individuals, and suppress assemblies, or newspapers, when they may be working palpable injury  to the Military in your charge; and, in no other case will you interfere with the expression of opinion in any form, or allow it to be interfered with violently by others. In this, you have a discretion to exercise with great caution, calmness, and forbearance. With the matters of removing the inhabitants of certain counties en masse ; and of removing certain individuals from time to time, who are supposed to be mischievous, I am not now interfering, but am leaving to your own discretion Nor am I interfering with what may still seem to you to be necessary restrictions upon trade and intercourse. I think proper, however, to enjoin upon you the following: Allow no part of the Military under your command, to be engaged in either returning fugitive slaves, or in forcing, or enticing slaves from their homes; and, so far as practicable, enforce the same forbearance upon the people. Report to me  your opinion upon the availibility for good, of the enrolled militia of the State. Allow no one to enlist colored troops, except upon orders from you, or from here through you. Allow no one to assume the functions of confiscating property, under the law of congress, or other wise, except upon orders from here. At elections, see that those, and only those are allowed to vote, who are entitled to do so, by the laws of Missouri, including as of those laws, the restriction laid by the Missouri convention upon those who may have participated in the rebellion. So far as practicable you will, by means of your military force, expel guerrillas, marauders, and murderers, and all who are known to harbor, aid, or abet them. But, in like manner, you will repress assumptions of unauthorized individuals to perform the same service; because under pretence of doing this, they become marauders and murderers themselves. To now restore peace, let the military obey orders; and those not of the military, leave each other alone; thus not breaking the peace themselves. In giving the above directions, it is not intended to restrain you in other expedient and necessary matters not falling within their range. Your Obt. Servt. A LINCOLN

To Thomas A. Scott
Thomas A. Scott Washington, D.C., Louisville, Ky Oct. 1. 4/20 P.M. 1863.
Tell me how things have advanced, so far as you know. A LINCOLN

To Erastus B. Tyler
Gen. Tyler Washington, D.C., Baltimore. Oct. 1. 1863
Take care of colored troops in your charge; but do nothing further about that branch of affairs until further orders. Particularly do nothing about Gen. Vickers of Kent county. A. LINCOLN. Send a copy to Col. Birney. A.L.

To John P. Usher
Hon. Sec. of Interior Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Oct. 1. 1863.
I suppose --- Edmunds better be appointed Governor of Dakota. Get the name, and send it with this to the Sec. of State. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John M. Schofield
Gen. Schofield Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Mo. Oct. 2 1863
I have just seen your despatch to Gen. Halleck about Gen. Blunt. If possible, you better allow me to get through with a certain matter here, before adding to the difficulty of it. Meantime telegraph me the particulars of Gen. Blunt's case. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Oct. 3, 1863.
Whenever there shall be a vacancy of a Judgeship in any of the territories, I will thank you to remind [me] of the name of Martin P. Sweet , of Illinois. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William Birney
Col. Birney Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Md. Oct. 3. 1863
Please give me, as near as you can, the number of slaves you have recruited in Maryland. Of course, the number is not to include the free colored. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, D.C., October 3, 1863.
Have you a man in jeopardy as a deserter by the name William T. Evers, private in Company D, Brooklyn Fourteenth State Militia, or Eighty-fourth Volunteers? If you have please send me the facts and conditions of his case. A. LINCOLN.

Proclamation of Thanksgiving
October 3, 1863
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. The year that is drawing towards its close, has been filled with the blessings of fruitful fields and healthful skies. To these bounties, which are so constantly enjoyed that we are prone to forget the source from which they come, others have been added, which are of so extraordinary a nature, that they cannot fail to penetrate and soften even the heart which is habitually insensible to the ever watchful providence of Almighty God. In the midst of a civil war of unequalled magnitude and severity, which has sometimes seemed to foreign States to invite and to provoke their aggression, peace has been preserved with all nations, order has been maintained, the laws have been respected and obeyed, and harmony has prevailed everywhere except in the theatre of military conflict; while that theatre has been greatly contracted by the advancing armies and navies of the Union. Needful diversions of wealth and of strength from the fields of peaceful industry to the national defence, have not arrested the plough, the shuttle or the ship; the axe has enlarged the borders of our settlements, and the mines, as well of iron and coal as of the precious metals, have yielded even more abundantly than heretofore. Population has steadily increased, notwithstanding the waste that has been made in the camp, the siege and the battle-field; and the country, rejoicing in the consciousness of augmented strength and vigor, is permitted to expect continuance of years with large increase of freedom. No human counsel hath devised nor hath any mortal hand worked out these great things. They are the gracious gifts of the Most High God, who, while dealing with us in anger for our sins, hath nevertheless remembered mercy. It has seemed to me fit and proper that they should be solemnly, reverently and gratefully acknowledged as with one heart and one voice by the whole American People. I do therefore invite my fellow citizens in every part of the United States, and also those who are at sea and those who are sojourning in foreign lands, to set apart and observe the last Thursday of November next, as a day of Thanksgiving and Praise to our beneficent Father who dwelleth in the Heavens. And I recommend to them that while offering up the ascriptions justly due to Him for such singular deliverances and blessings, they do also, with humble penitence for our national perverseness and disobedience, commend to His tender care all those who have become widows, orphans, mourners or sufferers in the lamentable civil strife in which we are unavoidably engaged, and fervently implore the interposition of the Almighty Hand to heal the wounds of the nation and to restore it as soon as may be consistent with the Divine purposes to the full enjoyment of peace, harmony, tranquillity and Union. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this Third day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the Eighty-eighth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To John P. Usher

Sec. of Interior, please see, hear, & oblige of [ sic ] you can my friend T. J. Carter. A. LINCOLN Oct. 3. 1863

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade, Washington, D.C., Army of Potomac Oct. 4. 1863
I am appealed to in behalf of Daniel Hanson, of 97th. New-York, said to be under sentence of death for desertion. Please inform me as usual. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans: Washington, D.C., Chattanooga, Tenn. Oct 4. 1863
Yours of yesterday received. If we can hold Chattanooga, and East Tennessee, I think the rebellion must dwindle and die. I think you and Burnside can do this; and hence doing so is your main object. Of course, to greatly damage, or destroy, the enemy in your front would be a greater object, because it would include the former, and more; but it is not so certainly within your power. I understand the main body of the enemy is very near you---so near that you could ``board at home'' so to speak, and menace or attack him any day. Would not the doing of this, be your best mode of counteracting his raids on your communications? But this is not an order. I intend doing something like what you suggest, whenever the case shall appear ripe enough to have it accepted in the true understanding, rather than as a confession of weakness and fear. A. LINCOLN

To John M. Schofield
Gen. Schofield Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Mo. Oct. 4 1863
I think you will not have just cause to complain of my action. A. LINCOLN.

To Charles D. Drake and Others
Hon. Charles D. Drake & Executive Mansion others, Committee Washington D.C. Oct. 5. 1863
Gentlemen Your original address, presented on the 30th. ultimo, and the four supplementary ones, presented on the 3rd. inst have been carefully considered. I hope you will regard the other duties claiming my attention, together with the great length and importance of these documents as constituting a sufficient apology for my not having responded sooner. These papers, framed for a common object, consist of the things demanded, and the reasons for demanding them. The things demanded are: First: That General Schofield shall be relieved, and General Butler be appointed, as commander of the Military Department of Missouri. Second: That the system of Enrolled Militia in Missouri may be broken up, and national forces be substituted for it, and Third: That at elections, persons may not be allowed to vote who are not entitled by law to do so. Among the reasons given, enough of suffering and wrong to Union men is certainly, and I suppose truly stated. Yet the whole case, as presented, fails to convince me, that Gen. Schofield, or the Enrolled Militia, is responsible for that suffering and wrong. The whole can be explained on a more charitable, and, as I think, a more rational hypothesis. We are in civil war. In such cases there always is a main question; but in this case that question is a perplexing compound---Union and Slavery. It thus becomes a question not of two sides merely, but of at least four sides, even among those who are for the Union, saying nothing of those who are against it. Thus, those who are for the Union with , but not without slavery---those for it without , but not with ---those for it with or without , but prefer it with ---and those for it with or without , but prefer it without . Among these again, is a subdivision of those who are for gradual but not for immediate , and those who are for immediate , but not for gradual extinction of slavery. It is easy to conceive that all these shades of opinion, and even more, may be sincerely entertained by honest and truthful men. Yet, all being for the Union, by reason of these differences, each will prefer a different way of sustaining the Union. At once sincerity is questioned, and motives are assailed. Actual war coming, blood grows hot, and blood is spilled. Thought is forced from old channels into confusion. Deception breeds and thrives. Confidence dies, and universal suspicion reigns. Each man feels an impulse to kill his neighbor, lest he be first killed by him. Revenge and retaliation follow. And all this, as before said, may be among honest men only. But this is not all. Every foul bird comes abroad, and every dirty reptile rises up. These add crime to confusion. Strong measures, deemed indispensable but harsh at best, such men make worse by mal-administration. Murders for old grudges, and murders for pelf, proceed under any cloak that will best cover for the ocasion. These causes amply account for what has occurred in Missouri, without ascribing it to the weakness, or wickedness of any general. The newspaper files, those chroniclers of current events, will show that the evils now complained of were quite as prevalent under Fremont, Hunter, Halleck, and Curtis, as under Schofield. If the former had greater force opposed to them, they also had greater force with which to meet it. When the organized rebel army left the state, the main federal force had to go also, leaving the Department commander at home relatively no stronger than before. Without disparaging any, I affirm with confidence that no commander of that Department has, in proportion to his means, done better than Gen. Schofield. The first specific charge against Gen. Schofield is that the Enrolled Militia was placed under his command, whereas it had not been placed under the command of Gen. Curtis. The fact I believe is true; but you do not point out, nor can I conceive, how that did, or could injure loyal men, or the Union cause. You charge that upon Gen. Curtis being superseded by Gen. Schofield, Franklin A. Dick was superseded by James O. Brodhead, as Provost Marshal-General. No very specific showing is made as to how this did, or could injure the Union cause. It recalls, however, the condition of things, as presented to me, which led to a change of commander for that Department. To restrain contraband intelligence and trade, a system of searches, seizures, permits, and passes, had been introduced, I think, by Gen. Fremont. When Gen. Halleck came, he found, and continued this system, and added an order applicable to some parts of the State, to levy and collect contributions from noted rebels, to compensate losses, and relieve destitution caused by the rebellion. The action of Gen. Fremont and Gen. Halleck, as stated, constituted a sort of system, which Gen. Curtis found in full operation when he took command of the Department. That there was a necessity for something of the sort was clear; but that it could only be justified by stern necessity, and that it was liable to great abuse in administration, was equally clear. Agents to execute it, contrary to the great Prayer, were led into temptation. Some might, while others would not resist that temptation. It was not possible to hold any to a very strict accountability; and those yielding to the temptation, would sell permits and passes to those who would pay most, and most readily for them; and would seize property, and collect levies in the aptest way to fill their own pockets. Money being the object, the man having money, whether loyal or disloyal, would be a victim. This practice doubtless existed to some extent, and it was a real additional evil, that it could be and was, plausably charged to exist in greater extent than it did. When Gen. Curtis took command of the Department, Mr. Dick, against whom I never knew anything to allege, had general charge of this system. A controversy in regard to it rapidly grew into almost unmanageable proportions. One side ignored the necessity , and magnified the evils of the system; while the other ignored the evils, and magnified the necessity; and each bitterly assailed the motives of the other. I could not fail to see that the controversy enlarged in the same proportion as the professed Union-men there distinctly took sides in two opposing political parties. I exhausted my wits, and very nearly my patience also, in efforts to convince both that the evils they charged on each other, were inherent in the case, and could not be cured by giving either party a victory over the other. Plainly the irritating system was not to be perpetual; and it was plausably urged that it could be modified at once with advantage. The case could scarcely be worse, and whether it could be made better, could only be determined by a trial. In this view, and not to ban, or brand, Gen. Curtis, or to give a victory to any party, I made the change of commander for the Department. I now learn that soon after this change, Mr. Dick was removed, and that Mr. Brodhead, a gentleman of no less good character, was put in the place. The mere fact of this change is more distinctly complained of, than is any conduct of the new officer, or other consequence, of the change. I gave the new commander no instructions as to the administration of the system mentioned, beyond what is contained in the private letter, afterwards surreptitiously published, in which I directed him to act solely for the public good, and independently of both parties. Neither anything you have presented me, nor anything I have otherwise learned, has convinced me that he has been unfaithful to this charge. Imbecility is urged as one cause for removing Gen. Schofield; and the late massacre at Lawrence, Kansas, is pressed as evidence of that imbecility. To my mind that fact scarcely tends to prove the proposition. That massacre is only an example, of what Grierson,  John Morgan, and many others, might have repeatedly done, on their respective raids, had they chose to incur the personal hazard, and possessed the fiendish hearts to do it. The charge is made that Gen. Schofield, on purpose to protect the Lawrence murderers, would not allow them to be pursued into Missouri. While no punishment could be too sudden, or too severe for those murderers, I am well satisfied that the preventing of the threatened remedial raid into Missouri, was the only safe way to avoid an indiscriminate massacre there, including probably more innocent than guilty. Instead of condemning, I therefore approve what I understand Gen. Schofield did in that respect. The charges that Gen. Schofield has purposely withheld protection from loyal people, and purposely facilitated the objects of the disloyal, are altogether beyond my power of belief. I do not arraign the veracity of gentlemen as to the facts complained of; but I do more than question the judgment which would infer that those facts occurred in accordance with the purposes of Gen. Schofield. With my present views I must decline to remove Gen. Schofield. In this I decide nothing against Gen. Butler. I sincerely wish it were convenient to assign him a suitable command. In order to meet some existing evils I have addressed a letter of instructions to Gen. Schofield, a copy of which I inclose to you. As to the ``Enrolled Militia'' I shall endeavor to ascertain, better than I now know, what is it's exact value. Let me say now, however, that your proposal to substitute national force for the ``Enrolled Militia'' implies that in your judgment the latter is doing something which needs to be done; and if so, the proposition to throw that force away, and to supply its place by bringing other forces from the field where they are urgently needed seems to me very extraordinary. Whence shall they come? Shall they be withdrawn from Banks, or Grant, or Steele, or Rosecrans? Few things have been so grateful to my anxious feeling as when, in June last, the local force in Missouri aided Gen. Schofield to so promptly send a large general force to the relief of Gen. Grant, then investing Vicksburg, and menaced from without by Gen. Johnston. Was this all wrong? Should the Enrolled Militia then have been broken up, and Gen. Herron  kept from Grant, to police Missouri? So far from finding cause to object, I confess to a sympathy for whatever relieves our general force in Missouri, and allows it to serve elsewhere. I therefore, as at present advised, can not attempt the destruction of the Enrolled Militia of Missouri. I may add that the force being under the national military control, it is also within the proclamation in regard to the Habeas Corpus . I concur in the propriety of your request in regard to elections, and have, as you see, directed Gen. Schofield accordingly. I do not feel justified to enter upon the broad field you present in regard to the political differences between radicals and conservatives. From time to time I have done and said what appeared to me proper to do and say. The public knows it all. It obliges nobody to follow me, and I trust it obliges me to follow nobody. The radicals and conservatives, each agree with me in some things, and disagree in others. I could wish both to agree with me in all things; for then they would agree with each other, and would be too strong for any foe from any quarter. They, however, choose to do otherwise, and I do not question their right. I too shall do what seems to be my duty. I hold whoever commands in Missouri, or elsewhere, responsible to me, and not to either radicals or conservatives. It is my duty to hear all; but at last, I must, within my sphere, judge what to do, and what to forbear. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major Gen. Meade Washington, D.C., Army of Potomac. Oct. 5 1863
Yesterday I inquired of you about Daniel Hanson, private in 97. New-York, said to be under sentence of death for desertion. I fear you did not receive the despatch. Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 5, 1863
Sec. of War, please have the facts of this case reported to me. A. LINCOLN

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Whom it may concern. Washington, Oct. 5th, 1863.
Unless something now unknown, and unexpected, shall come to my knowledge, tending to change my purpose, I shall, at the proper time, appoint Timothy J. Carter, one of the two directors, to be appointed by the President, according to a provision in the first Section of the act of Congress, Entitled ``An act to aid in the construction of a Railroad and Telegraph Line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the Government the use of the same for Postal, Military and other purposes,'' Approved July 1, 1862. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Approval of Sentence in Case of David M. Wright
October 7, 1863
Upon the presentation of the record in this case and the examination thereof, aided by the report thereon of the Judge-Advocate-General, and on full hearing of counsel for the accused, being satisfied that no proper question remained open except as to the insanity of the accused, I caused a very full examination to be made on that question, upon a great amount of evidence, including all offered by counsel of accused, by an expert of high reputation in that professional department, who thereon reports to me, as his opinion, that the accused Dr. David M. Wright, was not insane prior to or on the 11th day of July, 1863, the date of the homicide of Lieutenant Sanborn; that he has not been insane since, and is not insane now (October 7, 1863). I therefore approve the finding and sentence of the military commission, and direct that the major-general in command of the department including the place of trial, and wherein the convict is now in custody, appoint time and place and carry said sentence into execution. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Andrew Johnson
Governor Johnson Washington, D.C., Nashville, Tenn Oct. 7. 1863
What news have you from Rosecrans' Army, or in that direction beyond Nashville? A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Washington, D.C., Army of Potomac Oct. 8. 1863
I am appealed to in behalf of August Blittersdorf, at Mitchells Station, Va. to be shot to-morrow, as a deserter. I am unwilling for any boy under eighteen to be shot; and his father affirms that he is yet under sixteen. Please answer. His Regt. or Co. not given me. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac Washington, Oct. 8, 1863.
The boy telegraphs from Mitchell's Station, Va. The father thinks he is in the 119th. Penn. Vols. The father signs the name ``Blittersdorf'' I can tell no more. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Washington, D.C., Army of Potomac Oct. 8 1863
I am appealed to in behalf of John Murphy, to be shot tomorrow. His Mother says he is but seventeen. Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade

If there is any reason to believe that this boy was under eighteen when he deserted, suspend his execution until further order. Oct. 8. 1863. A. LINCOLN To Major Gen. Meade

To John P. Usher
Hon. Sec. of Interior Executive Mansion Sir: Washington City, D.C. Oct. 8. 1863
Please send me an appointment for Daniel W. Wilder of Kansas, as Surveyor General, in place of Mark W. Delahay, resigned. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Oct. 9, 1863.
To-day Mrs. Galez  calls to make interest for Mr. Frederick Wippermann, now Consul at Galatz, in Moldavia. She wishes him to be transfered to Hamburg, as a matter of preference; but, at all events, wishes him sent to some more agreeable place than that where he now is. If you can conveniently find a way to oblige Mrs. Galez, I shall be glad. Yours truly. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Secretary of War Washington, Oct. 9, 1863.
Sir---Mrs. Thomas G. Clemsin is a daughter of the late Hon. John C. Calhoun, and is now residing near Bladensburg in Maryland. She understands that her son, Calhoun Clemsin, is now a prisoner of War to us at ``Johnsons Island['']; and she asks the previlege merely of visiting him. With your approbation, I consent for her to go. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, To whom it may concern Washington, October 9, 1863.
In pursuance of a Resolution of the Senate and Assembly of the State of New-York, in the words following, towit: Resolved , That the Governor be and hereby is empowered and requested to invite the President of the United States to select and detail a competent engineer in behalf and at the expense of the General Government, to consult with the engineers so to be appointed by the Canal Board, in respect to the surveys mentioned in the preceding resolution, and as to the mode of constructing the work so as most effectually to promote the national interests.  and in response to the invitation of the Governor of said State of New-York, made in virtue of said Resolution, I do hereby select and detail Charles B. Stuart, of Geneva, in said State,  to perform the duties contemplated in and by said resolution, it being understood by said Stuart that he is to rely upon an appropriation hereafter to be made by congress, for any compensation he may receive. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Commutation of Sentence
October 10, 1863
The Report of the Judge Advocate General is approved & as in the state of the pleadings & in the absence of proof the court was not warranted in finding the prisoner guilty of desertion, & as he has confessed himself guilty of absence without leave only, it is ordered that the death sentence be commuted to confinement at hard labor for six-months from this date. A. LINCOLN Oct. 10. 1863

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Washington, D.C., Army of Potomac Oct. 10 1863
Am interested with your despatch of noon. How is it now? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 10, 1863
I think these papers are sufficient to take the case of Lieut. Thomson out of the general run. The strong recommendation of Gens. Meade, Pleasonton & others, together with the almost unanimous wish of the officers of the 5th Cavalry, to have him appointed, I think fully justify his appointment. Sec. of War, please see him. Oct. 10, 1863 A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, War Department, Washington, D.C., Army of Potomac: October 11, 1863---9.50 A.M.
How is it now? A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Washington City, Army of Potomac Oct. 12. 9.A.M. 1863
What news this morning? A despatch from Rosecrans, leaving him at 7/30 PM. yesterday, says ``Rebel rumors that head of Ewells column reached Dalton yesterday'' I send this for what it is worth. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac Washington, Oct. 12, 1863.
The father and mother of John Murphy of the 119th. Pennsylvania Vols. have filed their own affidavits that he was born June 22, 1846; and also the affidavits of three other persons who all swear that they remember the circumstance of his birth and that it was in the year 1846, though they do not remember the particular day. I therefore, on account of his tender age, have concluded to pardon him, and to leave it to yourself whether to discharge him, or continue him in the service. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Washington, D.C., Chattanooga, Tenn. Oct. 12. 8/35 A.M. 1863
As I understand, Burnside is menaced from the East, and so can not go to you without surrendering East Tennessee. I now think the enemy will not attack Chattanooga; and I think you have to look out for his making a concentrated drive at Burnside. You and Burnside now have him by the throat, and he must break your hold, or perish. I therefore think you better to try to hold the river up to Kingston, leaving Burnside to what is above there. Sherman is coming to you, though gaps in the telegraph prevent our knowing how far he is advanced. He and Hooker will so support you on the West & North-West, as to enable you to look East & North East. This is not an order. Gen. Halleck will give his views. A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Alice C. Smith
Mrs Alice C. Smith Executive Mansion, Boston Mass. Washington, Oct. 12th. 1863.
Dear Madame, I shall have to acknowledge very briefly your letter informing me of the prosperity of your little boy whom you so kindly named after me. You may rest assured that my little namesake has my best wishes that he may grow to be a good man and a good citizen. Yours Very Truly A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

If this appointment can be consistently made, I shall be glad. Oct. 12. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Clinton B. Fisk
Gen'l Clinton B. Fisk, Executive Mansion, Washington. Pilot Knob, Mo. October 13, 1863.
My Dear Gen'l:---I have received and read, with great satisfaction, your letter of the 8th inst. It is so full of charity and good will , I wish I had time to more than thank you for it. Very truly yours, A. LINCOLN

To I. Wayne McVeagh
McVeigh. Executive Mansion, Philadelphia Washington, Oct. 13. 1863.
The enemy some days ago made a movement, apparantly to turn Gen. Meades right. This led to a manoevering of the two armies, and to pretty heavy skirmishing on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. We have frequent despatches from Gen. Meade, and up to ten o'clock last night, nothing had happened giving either side any marked advantage. Our army reported to be in excellent condition. The telegraph is open to Gen. Meade's camp this morning, but we have not troubled him for a despatch. A. LINCOLN

To James K. Moorhead
Hon. J. K. Moorehead Executive Mansion, Pittsburg, Penn. Washington, Oct. 13, 1863.
Not unless you think it necessary. A. LINCOLN

Note

Wants to be Chaplain of Invalid Corps in Washington. Oct. 13, 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew G. Curtin
Gov. Curtin Washington, D.C., Harrisburg, Penn. [October 14,] 186
How does it stand. A. LINCOLN

To I. Wayne McVeagh
Wayne McVeigh Washington, D.C., Philadelphia. Oct. 14. 3/35. 1863
How does it stand now? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 14, 1863
My impulse would be to say ``Let Charles O. Roby, take the oath and be discharged['']; yet I do not so say, not knowing what valid objection there may be, known at the War Department. Mr. Foster who presents this, was a M.C from New-York several years ago, and afterwards a resident of Virginia, as he states. He is vouched to me as a respectable & worthy gentleman. I submit the case to the Sec. of War. A. LINCOLN Oct. 14. 1863.

To Thurlow Weed
Hon. Thurlow Weed Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Oct 14, 1863.
I have been brought to fear recently that somehow, by commission or omission, I have caused you some degree of pain. I have never entertained an unkind feeling or a disparaging thought towards you; and if I have said or done anything which has been construed into such unkindness or disparagement, it has been misconstrued. I am sure if we could meet we would not part with any unpleasant impression on either side. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

I perceive no reason why the within recommendation of Gen. Grant shall not be followed. A. LINCOLN Oct. 15, 1863

To John G. Foster
Major General Foster Washington, D.C., Fort-Monroe, Va Oct. 15 1863
Postpone the execution of Dr. Wright to Friday the 23rd. Inst. (October). This is intended for his preparation and is final. A. LINCOLN

To James W. Grimes
Hon. James W. Grimes Washington City, Burlington, Iowa. Oct. 15. 1863
Thanks for your Iowa election news. I suppose you know that Pennsylvania and Ohio are all right. Gov. Morton telegraphs that county  elections in Indiana have gone largely in the same direction A. LINCOLN.

To Herman Kretz
Major Herman Krettz Executive Mansion, Cumberland, Md. Washington, Oct. 15, 1863.
Suspend execution of Dennis McCarty till further order from here. If McCarty has been removed send this to the officer where he is. A LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, October 15, 1863.
On the 4th instant you telegraphed me that Private Daniel Hanson, of Ninety-seventh New York Volunteers, had not yet been tried. When he shall be, please notify me of the result, with a brief statement of his case, if he be convicted. Gustave Blittersdorf, whom you say is enlisted in the One hundred and nineteenth Pennsylvania Volunteers, as William Fox, is proven to me to be only fifteen years old last January. I pardon him, and you will discharge him or put him in the ranks at your discretion.  Mathias Brown, of Nineteenth Pennsylvania Volunteers, is proven to me to be eighteen last May, and his friends say he is convicted on an enlistment and for a desertion, both before that time.  If this last be true he is pardoned, to be kept or discharged as you please. If not true suspend his execution and report the facts of his case. Did you receive my dispatch of 12th pardoning John Murphy? A. LINCOLN.

To Montgomery C. Meigs
Executive Mansion, Quarter-Master-General Washington, Oct. 15, 1863.
Some time ago I felt constrained to have Captain William H. Bailhasch relieved from duty at Springfield, Illinois. This was not because of a loss of confidence in him, but because of a different matter not now necessary to be explained. I now understand that Capt. Potter would like to have Capt. B. assigned to him, and that this would be agreeable also to Capt. B. Supposing this to be true, I shall be very glad of the arrangement. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 15, 1863
This lady, Abigail C. Berea, had a husband and three sons in the war, and has been a nurse herself, without pay, during nearly the whole war. Her husband was killed at Gettysburg, and one of her sons also has died in the service. One other son she is willing to leave in the service where he still is, but the youngest, James H. Benjamin, private in Co. K. 104 N.Y. vols. and who is in poor health, she asks to have discharged. Let it be done. October 15th, 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To Lyman B. Todd
L. B. Todd Washington, D.C., Lexington Ky October 15th. 1863
I send the following pass to your care A. LINCOLN ``Washington D.C. ``To whom it may concern Oct 15th. 63 Allow Mrs Robert S. Todd, widow, to go south and bring her daughter, Mrs Genl B. Hardin Helm, with her children, North to Kentucky. `` signed '' A. LINCOLN''

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. S. P. Chase Executive Mansion Washington D.C. Cincinnati & Columbus O. Oct. 16. 1863
If Judge Lawrence can not go to Key West at once, I shall have to appoint another. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas C. Durant
Washington, D.C., T. C. Durant, New York: October 16, 1863.
I remember receiving nothing from you of the 10th, and I do not comprehend your dispatch of to-day. In fact I do not remember, if I ever knew who you are, and I have very little conception as to what you are telegraphing about. A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion, Major General Halleck Washington, Oct. 16. 1863.
I do not believe Lee can have over sixty thousand effective men. Longstreet's corps would not be sent away, to bring an equal force back upon the same road; and there is no other direction for them to have come from. Doubtless, in making the present movement Lee gathered in all available scraps, and added them to Hills & Ewell's corps; but that is all. And he made the movement in the belief that four corps had left Gen. Meade; and Gen. Meade's apparantly avoiding a collision with him has confirmed him in that belief. If Gen. Meade can now attack him on a field no worse than equal for us, and will do so with all the skill and courage, which he, his officers and men possess, the honor will be his if he succeeds, and the blame may be mine if he fails. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, October 16, 1863.
Have you in custody for desertion a man by the name of Jacob Schwarz, a Swiss? If so please send a short statement of his case. Neither his company, regiment or corps is given me. A. LINCOLN.

To Montgomery C. Meigs
October 16, 1863
Please see Mrs. Hutter, who has given most of her time to the soldiers, during the war, and who wishes to present an invention of hers for the soldier's comfort, which she would like to have introduced into the service. . . . I certainly would prefer having it over my ears in cold weather, to their being naked.

To Officers of the Union Pacific Railroad
To the officers of Executive Mansion, The Pacific Railroad Washington, Oct 16, 1863.
Richard P. Morgan, bearer of this, is my personal acquaintance and friend, whom I would like to have obliged in any reasonable way. I became acquainted with him, while he was acting as a Railroad Civil Engineer, and I knew him long enough and well enough in this capacity to believe him to be both competent and faithful. Yours &c A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion Washington Oct. 16, 1863
Today Mrs. Elizabeth J. Platt calls and states that she is a widow, and at the beginning of the war had two sons only, both whom entered the army, and the eldest was mortally wounded at Gettysburgh, and afterwards died; that the younger Edwin F. Platt, of Co. F. 7 New Jersey Vols. was made a prisoner at same battle, but by parole or exchange is now at Annapolis Md. She says he was under sixteen when he entered the service and is now only a trifle over eighteen and is in feeble health. She says he and his brother were in all the battles of their Regiment. She now asks his discharge and if Hon. Daniel S. Gregory will say in writing on this sheet, that he personally knows Mrs. Platt and that he fully believes this statement, I will allow the discharge upon the papers so indorsed being presented to me. A. LINCOLN Let Edwin F. Platt, named in my note on the other half of this sheet, be discharged. A. LINCOLN Oct. 21, 1863

To Thomas W. Sweney
Thomas W. Sweeney Washington, D.C., Continental. Oct. 16 1863
Philadelphia. Tad is teasing me to have you forward his pistol to him. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Submitted to the Secretary of the Navy, to go on file with other papers in relation to Captn. Diller's new gunpowder. Oct. 16, 1863 A. LINCOLN.

Authorization for James A. Hardie
October 17, 1863
Lt. Col. James Hardie is authorized to perform the duties of Secretary of War during the temporary absence of the Secretary and Assistant Secretary.

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside Washington, D.C., Knoxville, Tenn. Oct. 17 1863
I am greatly interested to know how many new troops of all sorts you have raised in Tennessee. Please inform me. A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Simon Cameron Washington, D.C., Harrisburg, Penn. Oct. 17 1863
I forgot to notify you that your despatch of day-before-yesterday was duly received and immediately attended to in the best way we could think of. A. Lincoln

To John G. Foster
Major General Foster Washington, D.C., Fort-Monroe, Va Oct. 17. 1863
It would be useless for Mrs. Dr. Wright to come here. The subject is a very painful one, but the case is settled. A LINCOLN

To Montgomery C. Meigs
Quarter-Master-General Executive Mansion Washington, Oct. 17, 1863.
If, upon your judgment, you favor the introducing to the service, to any extent, the invention of Mrs. Hutter, for protection of Soldiers' ears, this may be taken as my order for you to do so. Yours &c. A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Calling for 300,000 Volunteers
October 17, 1863
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. Whereas, The term of service of a part of the Volunteer forces of the United States will expire during the coming year, and whereas, in addition to the men raised by the present draft, it is deemed expedient to call out three hundred thousand volunteers to serve for three years or the war, not however exceeding three years. Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy thereof, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into actual service, do issue this my Proclamation, calling upon the Governors of the different States to raise and have enlisted into the United States service, for the various companies and Regiments in the field from their respective States, their quotas of three hundred thousand men. I further proclaim, that all volunteers thus called out and duly enlisted, shall receive advance pay, premium and bounty as heretofore communicated to the Governors of States by the War Department through the Provost Marshal General's Office by special letters. I further proclaim, that all volunteers received under this call, as well as all others not heretofore credited, shall be duly credited on and deducted from the quotas established for the next draft. I further proclaim, that if any State shall fail to raise the quota assigned to it by the War Department under this call, then a draft for the deficiency in said quota shall be made on said State or on the Districts of said State for their due proportion of said quota; and the said draft shall commence on the fifth day of January, 1864. And I further proclaim, that nothing in this Proclamation shall interfere with existing orders, or those which may be issued for the present draft in the States where it is now in progress or where it has not yet commenced. The quotas of the States and districts will be assigned by the War Department, through the Provost Marshal General's office, due regard being had for the men heretofore furnished whether by volunteering or drafting, and the recruiting will be conducted in accordance with such instructions as have been or may be issued by that Department. In issuing this Proclamation, I address myself not only to the Governors of the several States, but also to the good and loyal people thereof, invoking them to lend their willing, cheerful and effective aid to the measures thus adopted, with a view to reinforce our victorious armies now in the field and bring our needful military operations to a prosperous end, thus closing forever the fountains of sedition and civil war. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this Seventeenth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-eighth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN. WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Henry W. Slocum
Major Gen. Slocum Executive Mansion, Stevenson, Alabama. Washington, Oct. 17, 1863.
Please have a medical examination made of William Brown, private in Co. C, 5th. Connecticut Vols. and report the result to me. A. LINCOLN

To William B. Thomas
Hon. Wm. B. Thomas Executive Mansion Philadelphia, Pa Washington, D.C. Oct. 17. 1863
I am grateful for your offer of 10,000 men; but, as at present advised, I do not consider that Washington is in danger, or that there is any emergency requiring 60. or 90. day men. A. LINCOLN

To John Williams and Nathaniel G. Taylor
John Williams & N. G. Taylor. Washington, D.C., Knoxville, Tenn. Oct. 17 1863
You do not estimate the holding of East Tennessee more highly than I do. There is no absolute purpose of withdrawing our forces from it; and only a contingent one to withdraw them temporarily , for the purpose of not losing the position permanently . I am in great hope of not finding it necessary to withdraw them at all---particularly if you raise new troops rapidly for us there. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas C. Durant
T. C. Durant. Washington City, DC. New-York. Oct. 18 1863
As I do with others, so I will try to see you when you come. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out and send me a pardon in this case. A. LINCOLN Oct. 19, 1863

To Montgomery Blair

Post-Master General, read & return. Oct. 19, 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Hamilton R. Gamble
His Excellency Hamilton R. Gamble Executive Mansion. Governor of Missouri. Washington D.C. Oct. 19. 1863
Yours of the 1st. Inst. was duly received; and I have delayed so long to answer it, because of other pressing duties; because it did not appear to me that the domestic violence you apprehend, was very imminent; and because, if it were so imminent, my direction to Gen. Schofield embraces very nearly the extent of my power to repress it. Being instructed to repress all violence, of course he will, so far as in his power, repress any which may be offered to the State government. At the beginning of our present troubles, the regularly installed State officers of Missouri, taking sides with the rebellion, were forced to give way to the provisional State government, at the head of which you stand and which was placed in authority, as I understood, by the unanamous action and acquiescence, of the Union people of the State. I have seen no occasion to make a distinction against that provisional government because of it's not having been chosen and inaugurated in the usual way. Nor have I seen any cause to suspect it of unfaithfulness to the Union. So far as I have yet considered, I am as ready, on a proper case made, to give the State the constitutional protection against invasion and domestic violence, under the provisional government, as I would be if it were under a government installed in the ordinary manner. I have not thought of making a distinction. In your proclamation of the 12th. Inst. you state the proposition substantially, that no objection can be made to any change in the State government, which the people may desire to make, so far as the end can be effected by means conforming to the constitution and laws through the expression of the popular will; but that such change should not be effected by violence. I concur in this; and, I may add, that it makes precisely the distinction I wish to keep in view. In the absence of such violence, or imminent danger thereof, it is not proper for the national executive to interfere; and I am unwilling, by any formal, action, to show an appearance of belief that there is such imminent danger, before I really believe there is. I might thereby, to some extent, bear false witness. You tell me ``a party has sprung up in Missouri, which openly and loudly proclaims the purpose to overturn the provisional government by violence.'' Does the party so proclaim, or is it only that, some members of the party so proclaim? If I mistake not, the party alluded to recently held a State convention, and adopted resolutions. Did they, therein declare violence against the provisional State government? No party can be justly held responsible for what individual members of it may say or do. Nothing in this letter is written with reference to any State which may have maintained within it, no State government professedly loyal to the United States. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Washington, D.C., Chattanooga, Tenn. Oct. 19. 1863
There has been no battle recently at Bul-Run. I suppose what you have heard a rumor of was not a general battle, but an ``Affair'' at Bristow-Station, on the Railroad a few miles beyond Manassas-Ju[n]ction towards the Rappahannock, on Wednesday the 14th. It began by an attack of the enemy upon Gen. Warren, and ended in the enemy being repulsed, with a loss of four cannon & from four to seven hundred prisoners. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 19, 1863
Let Col. Lucius Fairchild, of Wisconsin, be appointed a Brigadier General of Volunteers. You will find the Christian name on file.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I agree with Mr. Kellogg that William Casey is a proper man, if such an agent is to be appointed. A. LINCOLN Oct. 19, 1863

To Ambrose E. Burnside and Jeremiah T. Boyle
Major General Burnside & Executive Mansion, Brig. Gen. J. T. Boyle Washington, Louisville Ky October 20, 1863.
Let execution of sentence of Lee W. Long be suspended until further order. A. LINCOLN

To Donn C. Piatt
(Cypher) Col. Donn Piatt, War Department, Baltimore, Md.: Washington, D.C., October 20, 1863.
If the young men seem to know anything of importance, send them over. A. LINCOLN.

Reply to Maryland Slaveholders
October 21, 1863
. . . the President asserted, first, that he did not know by what authority the force in question had been sent there, and accordingly he directed Mr. Watson (Acting Secretary of War in the absence of Mr. Stanton on a visit to the army) to communicate with Gen. Schenck upon that point. He then added, in substance, that he thought that negroes might be recruited in Maryland by consent of masters, as they had been in the Army of the Cumberland, but he did not wish to effect the object in any rude or ungentlemanly manner. The President said he had promised Governor Bradford, Mr. Reverdy Johnson, and others that the enlistment of negroes should not take place under ninety days. He thought he would order the withdrawal of the negro troops now upon the Patuxent.

To Robert C. Schenck
Major General Schenck Executive Mansion Baltimore, Md Washington, D.C. Oct 21. 1863
A delegation is here saying that our armed colored troops are at many if not all the landings on the Patuxent river, and by their presence, with arms in their hands, are frightening quiet people, and producing great confusion. Have they been sent there by any order? and if so, for what reason? A. LINCOLN

To Henry A. Wise
Executive Mansion, Capt. H. A. Wise Washington, Chef. Ord. Bureau Navy Department Oct. 21, 1863.
In relation to the new-powder, of Capt. Diller, please act upon the statements contained in the letters of Major Laidley, and Lieut commanding Jeffers to Capt. Diller, sent by me, & now on file with you, the same as if the statements were contained in formal reports, and this shall be your justification therefor. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Commander at Evansville, Indiana
Military Commander at Washington, D.C., Evansville, Indiana Oct. 22. 1863
A certain Major Long---I believe Lee W. Long---is, by sentence of Court Martial, or Military commission, to be executed soon---on the 30th. Inst. I think,---at Evansville. I have directed execution of the sentence to be suspended till further order. Please act accordingly. A. LINCOLN.

To William P. Mellen

If Mr. Mellen can consistently oblige Mr. Sweeney, I shall be glad; but I would not have him do it otherwise. A. LINCOLN Oct. 22. 1863.

Remarks to New School Presbyterians
October 22, 1863
It has been stated that he had a heavy responsibility resting upon him. He felt it when he considered the great territory of the country---the large population, with the institutions which have grown up---liberty and religion to be maintained. He could only do his duty by the assistance of God and the means which He has supplied, of which the reverend gentlemen around him were noble examples. If God be with us, we will succeed; if not, we will fail.

To Robert C. Schenck
Major General Schenck Executive Mansion, Baltimore, Md. Washington, Oct. 22, 1863.
Please come over here. The fact of one of our officers being killed on the Patuxent, is a specimen of what I would avoid. It seems to me we could send white men to recruit better than to send negroes, and thus inaugerate homicides on punctillio. Please come over. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 22, 1863
Let the boy, Samuel B. Bristow, named within take the oath of allegiance, be discharged; and go with his father. He is at Camp Douglas. A. LINCOLN Oct. 22. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Oct. 22. 1863.
I have so many appeals made to me by so very respectable people, in behalf of nearly a dozen Captains and Lieutenants of the 10th. New-York Cavalry, who have been summarily dismissed, that I will thank you to have these cases thoroughly re-investigated, and the facts reported to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Oct. 22, 1863.
I am told that one John C. Lemmon, had been commissioned Colonel of the 10th. New-York Cavalry by Gov. Seymour; that he was refused at the War Department, to be mustered in, perhaps because the regiment was not full enough, that I have ordered him to be mustered in when the regiment shall be full. I am also told that at the time I made the order, Gov. Seymour had recanted, and sent a request that he should not be mustered. Please inform me whether papers on file show these facts, and, in fact, what the papers do show in the case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Lorenzo Thomas
Executive Mansion, Washington, To the Adjutant-General: October 23d, 1863.
Please grant such request as Col. Huidekoper may make. A. LINCOLN

To George H. Boker
George H. Boker Esq Executive Mansion, Secretary Washington, October 24, 1863.
My Dear Sir It is with heartfelt gratification that I acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 30th of September, and the accompanying medal, by which I am made an honorary member of the Union League of Philadelphia. I shall always bear with me the consciousness of having endeavored to do my duty in the trying times through which we are passing, and the generous approval of a portion of my fellow-citizens so intelligent and so patriotic as those composing your Association, assures me that I have not wholly failed. I could not ask, and no one could merit, a better reward. Be kind enough, sir, to convey to the gentlemen whom you represent, the assurance of the grateful appreciation with which I accept the honor you have conferred upon me. I am very sincerely Your Obedient Servant A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion Major General Halleck. Washington, Oct 24, 63.
Taking all our information together I think it probable that Ewell's corps has started for East Tennessee by way of Abingdon, marching last Monday, say, from Meade's front directly to the Railroad at Charlottesville. First, the object of Lee's recent movement against Meade, his destruction of the Alexandria & Orange Rail road, and subsequent withdrawal, without more, not otherwise apparent, would be explained by this hypothesis. Secondly, the direct statement of Sharpe's man that Ewell has gone to Tennessee. Thirdly, the Irishman's statement that he has not gone through Richmond; and his further statement of an appeal made to the people at Richmond to go and protect their salt, which could only refer to the works near Abingdon. Fourthly, Graham's  statement from Martinsburg that Imboden  is in retreat for Harrisonburg. This last matches with the idea that Lee has retained his cavalry, sending Imboden, and perhaps other scraps, to join Ewell. Upon this probability, what is to be done? If you have a plan matured, I have nothing to say. If you have not, then I suggest that with all possible expedition the Army of the Potomac get ready to attack Lee; and that, in the mean time, a raid shall, at all hazzards, break the Railroad at or near Lynchburg, Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

Remarks to Baltimore Presbyterian Synod: Two Versions
October 24, 1863
I can only say in this case, as in so many others, that I am profoundly grateful for the respect given in every variety of form in which it can be given from the religious bodies of the country. I saw, upon taking my position here, that I was going to have an administration, if an administration at all, of extraordinary difficulty. It was, without exception, a time of the greatest difficulty that this country ever saw. I was early brought to a living reflection that nothing in my power whatever, in others to rely upon, would succeed without the direct assistance of the Almighty, but all must fail. I have often wished that I was a more devout man than I am. Nevertheless, amid the greatest difficulties of my Administration, when I could not see any other resort, I would place my whole reliance in God, knowing that all would go well, and that He would decide for the right. I thank you, gentlemen, in the name of the religious bodies which you represent, and in the name of the Common Father, for this expression of your respect. I cannot say more. Gentlemen of the Baltimore Synod: I can only say that in this case, as in many others, I am profoundly grateful for the support given me in every field of labor in which it can be given, and which has ever been extended to me by the religious community of the country. I saw before taking my position here that I was to have an administration, if it could be called such, of extraordinary difficulty, and it seems to me that it was ever present with me as an extraordinary matter that in the time of the greatest difficulty that this country had ever experienced, or was likely to experience, the man who, at the least of it, gave poor promise of ability, was brought out for duty at that time. I was early brought to the living reflection that there was nothing in the arms of this man, however there might be in others, to rely upon for such difficulties, and that without the direct assistance of the Almighty I was certain of failing. I sincerely wish that I was a more devoted man than I am. Sometimes in my difficulties I have been driven to the last resort to say God is still my only hope. It is still all the world to me. I again say that I thank you in the name of the religious people of the country generally, and in the name of our common Father of returning you my thanks for the encouraging and most unanimous support that has been constantly given me. I know not that I can say more.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Oct. 24, 1863.
It is said to me that Slaughter Bradford is in the Old Capitol prison, as is believed, because he was met upon the road by our troops, as they came from Culpepper ten days ago, when, if left alone, he might have met the enemy and given information. If this is true he should be liberated. What is known about the case? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion October 24, 1863
Respectfully referred to the Secretary of War for the consideration of the Bureau of Cavalry A. LINCOLN.

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. J. T. Boyle Executive Mansion Louisville, Ky. Washington D.C. Oct. 25. 1863.
Let the order suspending the execution of Long, apply also to the case of Woolfolk. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Secretary of Treasury: October 26, 1863.
My Dear Sir: The writer of the accompanying letter is one of Mrs. L[incoln]'s numerous cousins. He is a grandson of Millikin's Bend, near Vicksburg---that is, a grandson of the man who gave name to Millikin's Bend. His father was a brother to Mrs. L's mother. I know not a thing about his loyalty beyond what he says. Supposing he is loyal, can any of his requests be granted? and, if any, which of them? Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To James M. Cutts, Jr.
Executive Mansion, Capt. James M. Cutts. Washington, Oct 26, 1863.
Although what I am now to say is to be, in form, a reprimand, it is not intended to add a pang to what you have already suffered upon the subject to which it relates. You have too much of life yet before you, and have shown too much of promise as an officer, for your future to be lightly surrendered. You were convicted of two offences. One of them, not of great enormity, and yet greatly to be avoided, I feel sure you are in no danger of repeating. The other you are not so well assured against. The advice of a father to his son ``Beware of entrance to a quarrel, but being in, bear it that the opposed may beware of thee,'' is good, and yet not the best. Quarrel not at all. No man resolved to make the most of himself, can spare time for personal contention. Still less can he afford to take all the consequences, including the vitiating of his temper, and the loss of self-control. Yield larger things to which you can show no more than equal right; and yield lesser ones, though clearly your own. Better give your path to a dog, than be bitten by him in contesting for the right. Even killing the dog would not cure the bite. In the mood indicated deal henceforth with your fellow men, and especially with your brother officers; and even the unpleasant events you are passing from will not have been profitless to you.

To Ladies in Charge of Northwestern Fair
Executive Mansion, Washington, Oct. 26. 1863.
Ladies having in charge of the North-Western Fair For the Sanitary Commission Chicago, Illinois According to the request made in your behalf, the original draft of the Emancipation proclamation is herewith enclosed. The formal words at the top, and the conclusion, except the signature, you perceive, are not in my hand-writing. They were written at the State Department by whom I know not. The printed part was cut from a copy of the preliminary proclamation, and pasted on merely to save writing. I had some desire to retain the paper; but if it shall contribute to the relief or comfort of the soldiers that will be better Your obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Elihu B. Washburne
Private & confidential Hon. E. B. Washburne Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Oct. 26. 1863.
Yours of the 12th. has been in my hands several days. Inclosed I send the leave of absence for your brother,  in as good form as I think I can safely put it. Without knowing whether he would accept it, I have tendered the Collectorship at Portland, Me, to your other brother, the Governor.  Thanks to both you and our friend Campbell,  for your kind words and intentions. A second term would be a great honor and a great labor, which together, perhaps I would not decline, if tendered. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Opinion on the Loss of Robert H. Milroy's Division
[October 27, 1863]
In June last a Division was substantially lost at, and near Winchester, Va. At the time it was under Gen. Milroy as immediate commander in the field Gen. Schenck as Department commander at Baltimore and Gen. Halleck as General-in-Chief at Washington. Gen. Milroy, as immediate commander, was put in arrest, and subsequently a Court of Inquiry examined, chiefly with reference to disobedience of orders, and reported the evidence. The foregoing is a synoptical statement of the evidence, together with the Judge Advocate General's conclusions. The disaster, when it came, was a surprize to all. It was very well known to Gen. Schenck and Gen. Milroy for some time before that Gen. Halleck thought the division was in general danger of a surprize at Winchester, that it was of no service there commensurate with the risk it incurred, and that it ought to be withdrawn; but although he more than once advised it's withdrawal he never positively ordered it. Gen. Schenck, on the contrary, believed the service of the force at Winchester, was worth the hazard, and so did not positively order it's withdrawal, until it was so late that the enemy cut the wire and prevented to [ sic ] order reaching Gen. Milroy. Gen. Milroy seems to have concurred with Gen. Schenck in the opinion that the force should be kept at Winchester at least till the approach of danger, but he disobeyed no order upon the subject. Some question can be made whether some of Gen. Halleck's despatches to Gen. Schenck, should not have been construed to be orders to withdraw the force, and obeyed accordingly; but no such question can be made against Gen. Milroy. In fact the last order he received, was to be prepared to withdraw, but not to actually withdraw till further order, which further order never reached him. Serious blame is not necessarily due to every serious disaster, and I can not say that in this case, any of their officers is deserving of serious blame. No Court-Martial is deemed necessary or proper in the case.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War, please see these ladies a moment. Oct. 27. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Thomas Swann
Hon. Thomas Swann Executive Mansion Dear Sir: Washington DC. Oct. 27. 1863.
Your letter, a copy of which is on the other half of this sheet is received. I trust there is no just ground for the suspicion you mention; and I am somewhat mortified that there could be any doubt of my views upon the point of your inquiry. I wish all loyal qualified voters in Maryland & elsewhere, to have the undisturbed previlege of voting at elections; and neither my authority, nor my name can be properly used to the contrary. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN Private . Publish both letters, if either A L.

To Andrew Johnson
`` Cypher '' Hon. Andrew Johnson Executive Mansion Nashville, Tenn. Washington D.C. Oct. 28. 1863.
If not too inconvenient, please come at once, and have a personal consultation with me. A. LINCOLN

To John M. Schofield
Private & Confidential  Executive Mansion Washington, General John M. Schofield, October 28th. 1863.
There have recently reached the War Department, and thence been laid before me, from Missouri, three communications, all similar in import, and identical in object. One of them, addressed to nobody, and without place or date, but having the signature of (apparently) the writer, is a letter of eight closely written foolscap pages. The other two are written by a different person,  at St. Joseph, Mo., and of the dates, respectively, October 12th and 13th. 1863, and each inclosing a large number of affidavits. The general statements of the whole are, that the Federal and State authorities are arming the disloyal, and disarming the loyal, and that the latter will all be killed, or driven out of the State, unless there shall be a change. In particular, no loyal man, who has been disarmed, is named; but the affidavits show by name, forty two persons, as disloyal, who have been armed. They are as follows: Jackson Christopher 	Ratcliffe Baker 	John Keyes Henry Highsmith 	Thomas J Nolan Capd 	Enos Woodward Richard Highsmith 	Calvin James 	William Marsh David Alderman, 	James Raneer 	Barney Clark & two sons 	Milton R. Singleton 	Caswell Goodman William Jones 	John Smedie 	John Smith Perry McVay 	Anderson Cameron 	Geo. Cunningham John Goslin 	John Utz 	Fleming Tate Newton Rogers 	John Register 	A. H. Leach Alfred Rogers 	Joseph Register 	David Fitzpatrick Jacob Cox. Capd 	Lewis De Voss 	Samuel Wyatt Perry Hamilton 	Joseph Corton 	Aquilla I. Morrow John Chestnut 	P. Burge 	William Morrow William Ferrill 	Dillard Woodward 	Thomas Fly Tip Russell A majority of these are shown to have been in the rebel service. I believe it could be shown that this government here have deliberately armed more than ten times as many, captured at Gettysburg, to say nothing of similar operations in East Tennessee. These papers contain, altogether, thirty one manuscript pages, and one newspaper in extenso; and yet I do not find it any where charged in them, that any loyal man has been harmed by reason of being disarmed, or that any disloyal one has harmed any body by reason of being armed by the Federal or State government. Of course I have not had time to carefully examine all; but I have had most of them examined and briefed by others, and the result is as stated. The remarkable fact, that the actual evil is yet only anticipated---inferred---induces me to suppose I understand the case. But I do not state my impression, because I might be mistaken; and because your duty and mine is plain in any event. The locality of nearly all this, seems to be St. Joseph, and Buchanan County. I wish you to give special attention to this region, particularly on election day. Prevent violence from whatever quarter; and see that the soldiers themselves, do no wrong. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 28, 1863
I would like, if possible, to ascertain the facts.

To Timothy J. Carter
T. J. Carter Executive Mansion New-York. Washington, D.C. Oct. 29. 1863
I made your appointment yesterday, and the Secretary of the Interior undertook to send it to you. I suppose it will reach you to-day. A. LINCOLN.

To Clinton B. Fisk
Gen. Clinton B. Fisk Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Oct. 29. 1863.
I have just received and read your very kind and instructive letter of the 24th. for which please accept my thanks. It is so free from passion, and so full of charity and good will, that I regret not having time to do more than acknowledge the receipt of it. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To James W. Grimes
October 29, 1863
AN ACT to regulate the duties of the Clerk of the House of Representatives in preparing for the organization of the House. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That, before the first meeting of the next Congress, and of every subsequent Congress, the Clerk of the next preceding House of Representatives shall make a roll of the representatives elect, and place thereon the names of all persons, and of such persons only, whose credentials show that they were regularly elected in accordance with the laws of their States respectively, or the laws of the United States. Approved March 3, 1863. Hon. James W. Grimes Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Washington D.C. Oct. 29, 1863. The above act of congress was passed, as I suppose, for the purpose of shutting out improper applicants for seats in the House of Representatives; and I fear there is some danger that it will be used to shut out proper ones. Iowa, having an entire Union delegation, will be one of the States the attempt will be made upon, if upon any. The Governor doubtless has made out the certificates, and they are already in the hands of the members. I suggest that they come on with them; but that, for greater caution, you, and perhaps Mr. Harlan with you, consult with the Governor, and have an additional set made out according to the form on the other half of this sheet; and still another set, if you can, by studying the law, think of a form that in your judgment, promises additional security, and qu[i]etly bring the whole on with you, to be used in case of necessity. Let what you do be kept still Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Hannibal Hamlin
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., October 29, 1863.
My dear Sir: The above act of Congress was passed, as I suppose, to exclude improper applicants from seats in the House of Representatives and there is danger now that it will be used to exclude proper ones. The attempt will be made, if at all, upon the members of those States whose delegations are entirely, or by a majority, Union men and of which your State is one. I suppose your members already have the usual certificates---which let them bring on. I suggest that for greater caution, yourself, the two senators, Messrs. Fessenden and Morrill, and the Governor consider this matter, and that the Governor make out an additional certificate, or set of certificates, in the form on the other half of this sheet, and still another, if on studying the law you gentlemen shall be able to frame one which will give additional security; and bring the whole with you, to be used if found necessary. Let it all be done quietly. The members of Congress themselves need not know of it. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac Washington, Oct. 29, 1863.
I see in a newspaper that you have recently approved sentences of death for desertion, of Thomas Sands, James Haley, H. H. Williams, Mathias Brown, alias Albert Brown, H. C. Beardsley, and George F. Perkins. Several of these are persons in behalf of whom appeals have been made to me. Please send me a short statement of each one of the cases, stating the age of each, so far as you can.? A. LINCOLN

Reply to Matias Romero
October 29, 1863
Mr. ROMERO: You have hitherto resided with us, and for a considerable period have been the chief diplomatic representative of your country at this Capital. You know how sincerely and how profoundly during that residence the United States desired that Mexico might always enjoy the blessings of domestic and foreign peace with perfect security, prosperity, independence and freedom. You know also that, during the previous residence to which I have referred, you enjoyed the respect and esteem of this Government and the good-will of the people of the United States. I have the pleasure of assuring you that in all things, as well affecting your country as yourself personally, these feelings remain unchanged. Thanking you for the liberal sentiments you have expressed for the United States, and congratulating you upon the renewed confidence which your Government has reposed in you, it is with unaffected pleasure that I bid you welcome to Washington.

To Zachariah Chandler
Hon. Z. Chandler Executive Mansion My dear Sir Washington D.C. Oct. 30. 1863.
There is danger that the above act of congress, intended to exclude improper applicants from seats in the House of Representatives, will be used to exclude proper ones. Your State is one upon which the attempt will probably be made if upon any. If the Governor has already made out the ordinary certificates, let the M.C's bring them along. In addition, I suggest that you, Senator Howard, and the Governor, have a consultation, and that another certificate or set of certificates be made out according to the form on the other half of this sheet, and still another, if you gentlemen can frame one that you shall think will give additional security, and bring them with you to be used, if needed. Let it be quietly done. Publicity might stir up the danger we wish to guard against. The M.C's themselves need not to know it Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Jacob Collamer
Executive Mansion Hon. Jacob Collamer. Washington, D.C., Oct. 30, 1863.
My Dear Sir:---There is danger that the above Act of Congress, intended to exclude improper members, will be used to exclude proper ones. May I ask that you, Senator Foot and your Governor will study the Act, and have certificates made out in two or three different forms and bring them on with you to be used if needed? On the other half of the sheet is a form which I have thought might do for one. Let it be done quietly, as publicity might increase the danger. The members themselves need not to know of it. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Frederick F. Low
``Cypher'' Hon. F. F. Lowe Executive Mansion San Francisco, Cal. Washington, D.C. Oct. 30. 1863
Below is an Act of Congress, passed last session, intended to exclude applicants not entitled to seats, but which, there is reason to fear, will be used to exclude some who are entitled. Please get with the governor and one or two other discreet friends, study the act carefully, and make certificates in two or three forms, according to your best judgment, and have them sent to me, so as to multiply the chances of the delegation getting their seats. Let it be done without publicity. Below is a form which may answer for one. If you could procure the same to be done for the Oregon member it might be well. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major Genl. Meade Executive Mansion Army of Potomac Washington D.C. Oct. 30. 1863
Much obliged for the information about deserters contained in your despatch of yesterday, while I have to beg your pardon for troubling you in regard to some of them, when, as it appears by yours, I had the means of answering my own questions. A. LINCOLN

To George Stoneman

Gen. Stoneman, please see and hear patiently my friend, George I. Bergen, who will hand you this. A. LINCOLN. Oct. 30, 1863.

To Edward Bates
October 31, 1863
Inclining to believe that this boy has been sufficiently punished in the four months imprisonment he has already endured, I have concluded to say ``Let a pardon be made out in the case[''] Oct. 31. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Will the Attorney General please have a pardon made out in this case as soon as convenient & transmitted to me for signature. October 31. 1863 A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Troops in New York
Executive Mansion Washington, Oct. 31. 1863
The Provost-Marshal-General has issued no proclamation at all. He has, in no form, announced anything recently in regard to troops in New-York, except in his letter to Governor Seymour of October 21st. which has been published in the newspapers of that State. It has not been announced nor decided, in any form, by the Provost Marshal-General, or any one else in authority of the government, that every citizen who has paid his three hundred dollars commutation, is liable to be immediately drafted again, or that towns that have just raised the money to pay their quotas will have again to be subject to similar taxation or suffer the operation of the new conscription, nor is it probable that the like of these ever will be announced or decided.

To St. Nicholas Hotel Office
St Nicholas Hotel Office Washington, D.C., New York Oct. 31 1863
Not knowing whether Col. Parsons could be spared from duty elsewhere to come to Washington, I referred Gov. Yates despatch to the Secretary of War, who I presume still holds it under advisement. A LINCOLN

To William Sprague
Hon. William Sprague Executive Mansion My dear Sir Washington D.C. Oct. 31. 1863
There is danger that the above act of congress, intended to exclude improper applicants from seats, will be used to exclude proper ones. I propose that yourself, Senator Anthony and the Governor  maturely consider the subject, and frame credentials for the members in two or three different forms, and bring them on with you to be used if needed. The form on the other half of this sheet will perhaps answer for one. Let it be done qu[i]etly, as publicity might increase the danger. The members themselves need not to know of it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 31, 1863
The bearer of this L. B. Goggin, resides in Kentucky and is well vouched as an unconditional Union man. He also is brother of W. L. Goggin of Va., whom I know, and whose honor I would take to any extent he would pledge it. Please see him and allow him to bring away from Va. a widowed daughter, whom he expects to meet at City Point.

To Lyman B. Todd
L. B. Todd Washington, D.C., Lexington, Ky. Oct. 31 1863
I sent the pass by Telegraph more than ten days ago. Did you not receive it? A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning the Draft
[November 1, 1863]
The State receives the same credit for a man who has paid commutation as if the drafted citizen had gone in person or furnished a substitute; and, in like manner, towns which have raised the money to pay for their quotas receive the same credit as if actual substitutes had been furnished. It is ordered that every citizen who has paid the $300 commutation shall receive the same credit therefor as if he had furnished a substitute, and is exonerated from military service for the time for which he was drafted, to wit, for three years.

To William H. Seward
Hon. W. H. Seward Washington, D.C., Auburn, N.Y. Nov. 1 1863
No important news. Details to Hooker's night fight do great credit to his commanand [ sic ], and particularly to the 11th. Corps, and Geary's part of the 12th. No discredit on any. A. LINCOLN

To Justus B. Sheppard
J. B. Sheppard Washington, D.C., Harper's Ferry, Md. Nov. 1 1863
Yours of this morning received, and the Secretary of War is attending to your request. A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery Blair
Hon. Montgomery Blair: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Nov. 2. 1863.
Some days ago I understood you to say that your brother, Gen. Frank Blair, desires to be guided by my wishes as to whether he will occupy his seat in congress or remain in the field. My wish, then, is compounded of what I believe will be best for the country, and best for him. And it is, that he will come here, put his military commission in my hands, take his seat, go into caucus with our friends, abide the nominations, help elect the nominees, and thus aid to organize a House of Representatives which will really support the government in the war. If the result shall be the election of himself as Speaker, let him serve in that position; if not, let him re-take his commission, and return to the Army. For the country this will heal a dangerous schism; for him, it will relieve from a dangerous position. By a misunderstanding, as I think, he is in danger of being permanently separated from those with whom only he can ever have a real sympathy---the sincere opponents of slavery. It will be a mistake if he shall allow the provocations offered him by insincere time-servers, to drive him out of the house of his own building. He is young yet. He has abundant talent---quite enough to occupy all his time, without devoting any to temper. He is rising in military skill and usefulness. His recent appointment to the command of a corps, by one so competent to judge as Gen. Sherman, proves this. In that line he can serve both the country and himself more profitably than he could as a member of congress on the floor. The foregoing is what I would say, if Frank Blair were my brother instead of yours. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Augustus W. Bradford
Gov. Bradford Executive Mansion Baltimore, Md. Washington, Nov. 2 1863.
I revoke the first of the three propositions in Gen. Schenck's general order No. 53, not that it is wrong in principle, but because the Military, being of necessity, exclusive judges, as to who shall be arrested, the provision is too liable to abuse. For the revoked part, I substitute the following: That  all Provost-Marshals, and other military officers do prevent all disturbance and violence at or about the polls, whether offered by such person as above described or by any other person or persons whomsoever The other two propositions of the order, I allow to stand. My letter at length will reach you to-night. A. LINCOLN

To Augustus W. Bradford
His Excellency A. W. Bradford Executive Mansion. Governor of Maryland. Washington, Nov. 2. 1863.
Sir: Yours of the 31st. ult. was received yesterday about noon, and since then I have been giving most earnest attention to the subject matter of it. At my call Gen. Schenck has attended; and he assures me it is almost certain that violence will be used at some of the voting places on election day, unless prevented by his provostguards. He says that at some of those places Union voters will not attend at all, or run a ticket unless they have some assurance of protection. This makes the Missouri case, of my action in regard to which, you express your approval. The remaining point of your letter is a protest against any person offering to vote being put to any test not found in the laws of Maryland. This brings us to a difference between Missouri and Maryland. With the same reason in both States, Missouri has, by law, provided a test for the voter, with reference to the present rebellion, while Maryland has not. For example, Gen. Tremble, captured fighting us at Gettysburg, is, without recanting his treason, a legal voter by the laws of Maryland. Even Gen. Schenck's order, admits him to vote, if he recants upon oath. I think that is cheap enough. My order in Missouri, which you approve, and Gen. Schenck's order here, reach precisely the same end. Each assures the right of voting to all loyal men; and whether a man is loyal, each allows that man to fix by his own oath. Your suggestion that nearly all the candidates are loyal, I do not think quite meets the case. In this struggle for the nation's life, I can not so confidently rely on those whose elections may have depended upon disloyal votes. Such men, when elected, may prove true; but such votes are given them in the expectation that they will prove false. Nor do I think that to keep the peace at the polls, and to prevent the persistently disloyal from voting, constitutes just cause of offence to Maryland. I think she has her own example for it. If I mistake not, it is precisely what Gen. Dix did when your Excellency was elected Governor. I revoke the first of the three propositions in Gen. Schenck's general order No. 53; not that it is wrong in principle, but because the military being, of necessity, exclusive judges as to who shall be arrested, the provision is too liable to abuse. For the revoked part I substitute the following: ``That all Provost Marshals, and other Military officers, do prevent all disturbance and violence at or about the polls, whether offered by such persons as above described, or by any other person, or persons whomsoever'' The other two propositions of the order I allow to stand. Gen. Schenck is fully determined, and has my strict orders besides, that all loyal men may vote, and vote for whom they please. Your Obt. Servt A. LINCOLN.

To James H. Hackett
Private James H. Hackett Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Nov. 2. 1863.
Yours of Oct. 22nd. is received, as also was, in due course, that of Oct. 3rd. I look forward with pleasure to the fulfilment of the promise made in the former. Give yourself no uneasiness on the subject mentioned in that of the 22nd. My note to you I certainly did not expect to see in print; yet I have not been much shocked by the newspaper comments upon it. Those comments constitute a fair specimen of what has occurred to me through life. I have endured a great deal of ridicule without much malice; and have received a great deal of kindness, not quite free from ridicule. I am used to it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum of Instructions for Test of Diller's Powder
[c.November 2, 1863]
I select you to make the test of the new gun-powder, according to the foregoing documents. Having expended some five thousand dollars to be prepared for making the test, it is desired that it be most carefully and thoroughly made, and answers thereupon given to all the following questions, and any others which may occur to you as pertinent. Does this powder contain saltpetre or sulphur? Does it bear any relation to gun-cotten? Can the ingredients for making it always be obtained in sufficient quantity in the United States? Is it's manufacture simple, requiring no complicated apparatus, and is it attended with less danger than the manufacture of ordinary gun-powder? Do atmospheric changes, whether of moisture or heat, injure the powder? Will it explode with as little or less pressure than ordinary gun-powder? Will it ignite under 300deg.. Celsius? Will it ignite by a spark, or percussion-cap, like common gun-powder? Are seven parts of it, in weight, as effective in smooth bored guns as nine parts of common gun-powder? Is one part of it, in weight, as effective in rifled guns, as two parts of common powder? Will it, or the ingredients of it, deteriorate in store? Will it heat a gun less than common powder? and in what proportion? Does it give a weaker report? Does it make less smoke? Does it foul a gun less? Is it less liable to burst or damage a gun? In proportion to effect produced, is it cheaper than common gun-powder? Has it any fault or faults not stated, or suggested in and by the answers to the foregoing questions? and if so, what?

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 2, 1863
I think this officer should be paid for services actually rendered, the sum, which is in equity due him.

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac Washington, Nov. 3, 1863.
Samuel Wellers, private in Co. B. 49th. Penn Vols. writes that he is to be shot for desertion on the 6th. Inst. His own story is rather a bad one, and yet he tells it so frankly, that I am some what interested in him. Has he been a good soldier, except the desertion? About how old is he? A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for (Edward L.?) Baker

I know the bearer---Mr. Baker---very well, and he can be safely trusted with a pass to see the Monitor. A. LINCOLN Nov. 3. 1863.

To Abram Requa
Abram Requa Washington City, New-York. Nov. 3 1863
I know nothing whatever of Lt. Sebring, about whose case you telegraph. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning William H. Sebring
[c.November 3, 1863]
Sebring's relatives are all loyal Northern people, & a brother of his died in our service.

To William H. Seward
Hon. W. H. Seward Washington City, Auburn, N.Y. Nov. 3. 1863
Nothing new. Despatches up to twelve last night, from Chattanooga show all quiet and doing well. How is your son? A. LINCOLN

