Copybook Verses
[1824-1826]
Abraham Lincoln his hand and pen he will be good but god knows When  Abraham Lincoln his hand and pen he will be good but god knows When Time What an emty vaper tis and days how swift they are swift as an indian arr[ow] Meter fly on like a shooting star the presant moment Just [is here] then slides away in h[as]te that we [can] never say they ['re ours] but [only say] th[ey]'re past  Abraham Lincoln is my nam[e] And with my pen I wrote the same I wrote in both hast and speed and left it here for fools to read

Petition to Macon County Commissioners' Court
May 26, 1830
To the Hon County Comrs. Court for the County of Macon We the undersigned qualified voters in Decatur Precinct earnestly request your honors to change the present place of holding Elections in said Precinct from Permenius Smallwoods to the Court house in Decatur 26th May 1830 David Miller 	M. C. Shaw Thomas Law 	Charles Lewis Saml. B Dewees 	S. Sennitt D. H. Stewart 	Robert Stewart S R Sheppard 	John Dickey John Miller 	William Dickey William Hall 	Thomas Cowan J. B. Brown 	I. C. Pugh Squire Hall 	James Miller William Hanks 	Philip D. Williams Thomas Cole	Buel Stevens John Biglow 	David Florey Landy Harell 	Moses Hand Alfred Hall 	David Owen William Foren 	Randolph Rose John Pettyjohn 	Isaac Miller Reuben Brown 	Jas. Johnson James Martin 	John Ballard H. J. Armstrong 	Phillip Ballard Henry Ewing 	John Hankes Joseph Stevens 	John D. Johnston John Grimsley 	A Lincoln Andrew W Smith

Appraisal of an Estray
December 16, 1830
We the under signers having been called on to apprais an Estray Mare Taken up by Jonathan B. Brown on Monday the 12th. day of Decr. 1830: Do find her to be four years old next Spring a bright bay 14 hands high---a Small blaze and a Snip in her face---right hind foot white---right fore foot with a white Stripe down the hough and white hairs around the edge of the hough no brands perceiveable black mane and tail appraised to 30 Dollars [.] Given under hands this 16th. day of December 1830 A LINCOLN JOHN. W. REED

Petition to Sangamon County Commissioners' Court for Appointment of a Constable
March  1831
The Hone. the county commissioners court of Sangamon county at the March term for 1831. We the undersignd. petitioners would represent to your Hone. body that whereas it [is] represented to us that there is a vacancy in the office of constable in the Springfield district, and whereas the Statute in such cases made and provided, authorises your Hone. Court to fill such vacancy upon petition. We therefore request you to fill sd. vacancy with some suitable person.

Document Drawn for James Eastep
November 12, 1831
Know all men by these presents that I James Eastep am held and firmly bound in the penal Sum of twenty Dollars unto Solomon Teter for the conveyance of a certain tract or parcel of land it being the part of a certain tract (situated in St. Clair County and State of Illinois) which falls to my wife as an heir of Abraham Teter deceased. The condition of the above obligation is such. If the said James Eastep shall make a good and lawful patent to said Teter for the afforesaid parcel of land by the twelfth day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred-and thirty six the above obligation is to be null void and of no effect. Otherwise to Remain in full force and Virtue at law. In testimony whereof the said James Eastep has hereunto set his hand and seal this twelfth day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty one. Attest JAMES EASTEP (SEAL) A LINCOLN

Bill of Sale Drawn for John Ferguson
January 25, 1832
Known all men by these presents that I John Ferguson for and in considderation of the sum of thirty five dollars have given granted bargained and sold all my right and title in and to the New Salem ferry in Sangamon County unto Alexander Trent In testimony where of I have hereunto set my hand this 25th. January 1832 JOHN FERGUSON

Draft Drawn on James Rutledge
March 8, 1832
Mr. James Rutledge please to pay the bearer David P Nelson  thirty dollars and this shall be your receipt for the same March 8th. 1832. A LINCOLN for D Offutt 

Communication to the People of Sangamo County
To the People of Sangamo County March 9, 1832
FELLOW-CITIZENS: Having become a candidate for the honorable office of one of your representatives in the next General Assembly of this state, in accordance with an established custom, and the principles of true republicanism, it becomes my duty to make known to you---the people whom I propose to represent---my sentiments with regard to local affairs. Time and experience have verified to a demonstration, the public utility of internal improvements. That the poorest and most thinly populated countries would be greatly benefitted by the opening of good roads, and in the clearing of navigable streams within their limits, is what no person will deny. But yet it is folly to undertake works of this or any other kind, without first knowing that we are able to finish them---as half finished work generally proves to be labor lost. There cannot justly be any objection to having rail roads and canals, any more than to other good things, provided they cost nothing. The only objection is to paying for them; and the objection to paying arises from the want of ability to pay. With respect to the county of Sangamo, some more easy means of communication than we now possess, for the purpose of facilitating the task of exporting the surplus products of its fertile soil, and importing necessary articles from abroad, are indispensably necessary. A meeting has been held of the citizens of Jacksonville,  and the adjacent country, for the purpose of deliberating and enquiring into the expediency of constructing a rail road from some eligible point on the Illinois river, through the town of Jacksonville, in Morgan county, to the town of Springfield, in Sangamo county. This is, indeed, a very desirable object. No other improvement that reason will justify us in hoping for, can equal in utility the rail road. It is a never failing source of communication, between places of business remotely situated from each other. Upon the rail road the regular progress of commercial intercourse is not interrupted by either high or low water, or freezing weather, which are the principal difficulties that render our future hopes of water communication precarious and uncertain. Yet, however desirable an object the construction of a rail road through our country may be; however high our imaginations may be heated at thoughts of it---there is always a heart appalling shock accompanying the account of its cost, which forces us to shrink from our pleasing anticipations. The probable cost of this contemplated rail road is estimated at $290,000;---the bare statement of which, in my opinion, is sufficient to justify the belief, that the improvement of Sangamo river is an object much better suited to our infant resources. Respecting this view, I think I may say, without the fear of being contradicted, that its navigation may be rendered completely practicable, as high as the mouth of the South Fork, or probably higher, to vessels of from 25 to 30 tons burthen, for at least one half of all common years, and to vessels of much greater burthen a part of that time. From my peculiar circumstances, it is probable that for the last twelve months I have given as particular attention to the stage of the water in this river, as any other person in the country. In the month of March, 1831, in company with others, I commenced the building of a flat boat on the Sangamo, and finished and took her out in the course of the spring. Since that time, I have been concerned in the mill at New Salem. These circumstances are sufficient evidence, that I have not been very inattentive to the stages of the water. The time at which we crossed the mill dam, being in the last days of April, the water was lower than it had been since the breaking of winter in February, or than it was for several weeks after. The principal difficulties we encountered in descending the river, were from the drifted timber, which obstructions all know is not difficult to be removed. Knowing almost precisely the height of water at that time, I believe I am safe in saying that it has as often been higher as lower since. From this view of the subject, it appears that my calculations with regard to the navigation of the Sangamo, cannot be unfounded in reason; but whatever may be its natural advantages, certain it is, that it never can be practically useful to any great extent, without being greatly improved by art. The drifted timber, as I have before mentioned, is the most formidable barrier to this object. Of all parts of this river, none will require so much labor in proportion, to make it navigable, as the last thirty or thirty-five miles; and going with the meanderings of the channel, when we are this distance above its mouth, we are only between twelve and eighteen miles above Beardstown, in something near a straight direction; and this route is upon such low ground as to retain water in many places during the season, and in all parts such as to draw two-thirds or three-fourths of the river water at all high stages. This route is upon prairie land the whole distance;---so that it appears to me, by removing the turf, a sufficient width and damming up the old channel, the whole river in a short time would wash its way through, thereby curtailing the distance, and increasing the velocity of the current very considerably, while there would be no timber upon the banks to obstruct its navigation in future; and being nearly straight, the timber which might float in at the head, would be apt to go clear through. There are also many places above this where the river, in its zig zag course, forms such complete peninsulas, as to be easier cut through at the necks than to remove the obstructions from the bends---which if done, would also lessen the distance. What the cost of this work would be, I am unable to say. It is probable, however, it would not be greater than is common to streams of the same length. Finally, I believe the improvement of the Sangamo river, to be vastly important and highly desirable to the people of this county; and if elected, any measure in the legislature having this for its object, which may appear judicious, will meet my approbation, and shall receive my support. It appears that the practice of loaning money at exorbitant rates of interest, has already been opened as a field for discussion;  so I suppose I may enter upon it without claiming the honor, or risking the danger, which may await its first explorer. It seems as though we are never to have an end to this baneful and corroding system, acting almost as prejudicial to the general interests of the community as a direct tax of several thousand dollars annually laid on each county, for the benefit of a few individuals only, unless there be a law made setting a limit to the rates of usury. A law for this purpose, I am of opinion, may be made, without materially injuring any class of people. In cases of extreme necessity there could always be means found to cheat the law, while in all other cases it would have its intended effect. I would not favor the passage of a law upon this subject, which might be very easily evaded. Let it be such that the labor and difficulty of evading it, could only be justified in cases of the greatest necessity. Upon the subject of education, not presuming to dictate any plan or system respecting it, I can only say that I view it as the most important subject which we as a people can be engaged in. That every man may receive at least, a moderate education, and thereby be enabled to read the histories of his own and other countries, by which he may duly appreciate the value of our free institutions, appears to be an object of vital importance, even on this account alone, to say nothing of the advantages and satisfaction to be derived from all being able to read the scriptures and other works, both of a religious and moral nature, for themselves. For my part, I desire to see the time when education, and by its means, morality, sobriety, enterprise and industry, shall become much more general than at present, and should be gratified to have it in my power to contribute something to the advancement of any measure which might have a tendency to accelerate the happy period. With regard to existing laws, some alterations are thought to be necessary. Many respectable men have suggested that our estray laws---the law respecting the issuing of executions, the road law, and some others, are deficient in their present form, and require alterations. But considering the great probability that the framers of those laws were wiser than myself, I should prefer [not?] meddling with them, unless they were first attacked by others, in which case I should feel it both a privilege and a duty to take that stand, which in my view, might tend most to the advancement of justice. But, Fellow-Citizens, I shall conclude. Considering the great degree of modesty which should always attend youth, it is probable I have already been more presuming than becomes me. However, upon the subjects of which I have treated, I have spoken as I thought. I may be wrong in regard to any or all of them; but holding it a sound maxim, that it is better to be only sometimes right, than at all times wrong, so soon as I discover my opinions to be erroneous, I shall be ready to renounce them. Every man is said to have his peculiar ambition. Whether it be true or not, I can say for one that I have no other so great as that of being truly esteemed of my fellow men, by rendering myself worthy of their esteem. How far I shall succeed in gratifying this ambition, is yet to be developed. I am young and unknown to many of you. I was born and have ever remained in the most humble walks of life. I have no wealthy or popular relations to recommend me. My case is thrown exclusively upon the independent voters of this county, and if elected they will have conferred a favor upon me, for which I shall be unremitting in my labors to compensate. But if the good people in their wisdom shall see fit to keep me in the background, I have been too familiar with disappointments to be very much chagrined. Your friend and fellow-citizen, New Salem, March 9, 1832. A. LINCOLN.

Receipt to William Barnett
March 26, 1832
Received of Wm. Barnett in full of all due debts and demands up to this date A LINCOLN for D Offutt March 26. 1832.

Receipt to William Sampson
April 21, 1832
Received of William Sampson in full of all demands up to this day April 21. 1832 A LINCOLN for D Offutt

Receipt for Arms
April 28, 1832
Received, April 28, 1832, for the use of the Sangamon County Company, under my command, thirty muskets, bayonets, screws and wipers, which I oblige myself to return upon demand. A. LINCOLN, Capt. [Guns. 	 	Bayonets. 	 	Screws. 	 	Wipers. 19 	.. 	15 	.. 	9 	.. 	21 3 	.. 	2 	.. 	1 	.. 	1 1 	.. 	1 	.. 	4 	.. 	1 1 	.. 	1 	.. 	.. 	.. 	.. 1 	.. 	1 	.. 	.. 	.. 	.. 1 	.. 	.. 	.. 	.. 	.. 	.. -- 	 	-- 	 	-- 	 	--] 26 	 	20 	 	14 	 	23 Denied Weinberg, Chicago 1987

Muster Roll of Lincoln's Company
May 27, 1832
Muster Roll of Captain Abraham Lincolns Company of the [4th Rgt. of the] Brigade of Mounted Volunteers commanded by Brig. Genl. Samuel Whiteside [mustered out of service at the mouth of Fox River May 27th 1832] When Where No . Names Rank enrolled discharged Remarks 1 	Abraham Lincoln 	Captain 	21st. 	Mouth of Apl 	Fox River Ills 2 	Samuel M Thompson 	1st Lieut. 	`` 	`` 	Resigned the 30 day of April 3 	John Brannen 	2 `` 	`` 	`` 	Absent on extra duty 4 	John Armstrong 	1 Serg. 	`` 	`` 5 	Tavner B Anderson 	2 `` 	`` 	`` 6 	George W. Foster 	3 `` 	`` 	`` 	Transfered to a foot company April 29 7 	Obadiah Morgan 	4 `` 	`` 	`` 	Absent on furlough 8 	Thomas Combs 	1 Corp. 	`` 	`` 9 	John Plaster 	2 `` 	`` 	`` 	Resigned 20 day of May & served as a private since 10 	William F Berry 	3 `` 	`` 	`` 11 	Alexander Trent 	4 `` 	`` 	`` 12 	John Erwin 	private 	`` 	`` 	Promoted to 3rd Sergeant in room of G W Foster Apl 29 13 	John H. Houghton 	`` 	`` 	`` 14 	Thomas Pierce 	`` 	`` 	`` 15 	Samuel Tibbs 	`` 	`` 	`` 16 	Henry Hadley 	`` 	`` 	`` 17 	Samuel Dutton 	`` 	`` 	`` 18 	Calvin Pierce 	`` 	`` 	`` 19 	Joseph Tibbs 	`` 	`` 	`` 20 	William Kirkpatrick 	`` 	`` 	`` 	Promoted from the Ranks April 30th 21 	Cyrus Elmore 	`` 	`` 	`` 22 	Elijah Pierce 	`` 	`` 	`` 23 	Lewis W Farmer 	`` 	`` 	`` 24 	Bordry Matthews 	`` 	`` 	`` 25 	Ep. Sulivan 	`` 	`` 	`` 	`` 26 	Valentine Crete 	`` 	`` 	`` 27 	Charles Sulivan 	`` 	`` 	`` 28 	James Simmons 	`` 	`` 	`` 29 	Hugh Armstrong 	`` 	`` 	`` 	Promoted to 1st Lieutenant April 30th 30 	Allen King 	`` 	`` 	`` 31 	Joseph Dobson 	`` 	`` 	`` 32 	David Rankin 	`` 	`` 	`` 	Transfered to a foot company May 19th. When Where No . Names Rank enrolled discharged Remarks 33 	Urban Alexander 	`` 	`` 	`` 34 	Henry Cox 	`` 	`` 	`` 35 	Merrit M. Carman 	`` 	`` 	`` 36 	Royal Potter 	`` 	`` 	`` 37 	David M Pantier 	`` 	`` 	`` 38 	Joseph Hohimer 	`` 	`` 	`` 39 	George Warburton 	`` 	`` 	`` 40 	Evan T. Lamb 	`` 	`` 	`` 41 	Clardey Barnette 	`` 	`` 	`` 42 	John M Rutledge 	`` 	`` 	`` 43 	William Cox 	`` 	`` 	`` 44 	Usil Meeker 	`` 	`` 	`` 45 	Richard Jones 	`` 	`` 	`` 	Promoted from the Ranks May 2nd. 46 	Charles Pierce 	`` 	`` 	`` 47 	James Clemment 	`` 	`` 	`` 48 	John Y Lane 	`` 	`` 	`` 49 	Richard Lane 	`` 	`` 	`` 50 	Royal Clary 	`` 	`` 	`` 51 	Pleasant Armstrong 	`` 	`` 	`` 52 	James Yardley 	`` 	`` 	`` 53 	David Rutledge 	`` 	`` 	`` 54 	Michael Plaster 	`` 	`` 	`` 	absent without leave 55 	John Mounce 	`` 	`` 	`` 	absent without leave 56 	William Hohimer 	`` 	`` 	`` 57 	Isaac Anderson 	`` 	`` 	`` 58 	William Marshall 	`` 	`` 	`` 59 	William Cummins 	`` 	`` 	`` 60 	John Jones 	`` 	`` 	`` 	absent without leave 61 	Travice Elmore 	`` 	`` 	`` 62 	William Foster 	`` 	`` 	`` 	Transfered to a foot company April 29 63 	Nathan Drake 	`` 	29 April 	`` 64 	Robert S. Plunkett 	`` 	`` 	`` 65 	William T. Sprouce 	`` 	`` 	`` 	Promoted from the Ranks May 2nd 66 	William Clary 	`` 	`` 	`` 67 	Jacob Heaverer 	`` 	`` 	`` 68 	Isaac Guliher 	`` 	May 19th. 	`` I certify on honour that this Muster Roll exhibits a true Statement of Captain A Lincolns company of Mounted Volunteers of Illinois Militia on this day and that the remarks set opposite the names are accurate and Just. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Capt.

Election Return
September 20, 1832
At an election held at the house of John McNeil in the New Salem precinct in the County of Sangamon and State of Illinois on the 20th. day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty two the following named persons received the number of votes annexed to their respective names---for Constable--- John Clary had Forty one 	Votes for Constable John R. Herndon had Twenty two 	votes for constable William McNeely had Thirteen 	votes for constable Baxter B. Berry had Nine--- 	votes for constable Edmund Greer had Four--- 	votes for constable JAMES RUTLEDGE HUGH ARMSTRONG JAMES WHITE} Judges of the election Attest A. LINCOLN WILLIAM GREEN} Clerks of the election I certify that the above Judges and clerks were qualified according to law September 20. 1832 BOWLING GREEN J P

Promissory Note to James D. Henry
$104.871/2; No 13 October 30, 1832
SIX MONTHS after date we or either of us, promise to pay to J. D. HENRY Sheriff of Sangamon County, or order, (for the benefit of the creditors of V. A. Bogue)  the sum of one hundred & four dollars Eighty Seven 1/2 cents, value received this 30th Oct., 1832. NELSON ALLEY A LINCOLN

Election Return
November 5, 1832
At an election held at the house of Samuel Hill in the New Salem precinct in the County of Sangamon and State of Illinois on the fifth day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty two the following named persons received the number of votes annexed to their respective names for the following described offices (to Wit) Daniel Stookey had one hundred & eighty five votes for elector of President & Vice President Abner Flack had one hundred & eighty five votes for elector of President & Vice President James Evans had one hundred & eighty five votes for elector of President & Vice President Adam Dunlap had one hundred & eighty five votes for elector of President & Vice President John C Alexander had one hundred & eighty five votes for elector of President & Vice President William B. Archer had Seventy votes for elector of President & Vice President Leonard White had Seventy votes for elector of President & Vice President James B. Moore had Seventy votes for elector of President & Vice President Elijah Iles had Seventy votes for elector of President & Vice President Pierre Menard had Seventy votes for elector of President & Vice President JAMES RUTLEDGE A LINCOLN WILLIAM GREEN} Clerks of the election BOWLING GREEN HUGH ARMSTRONG} Judges of the election

Bill for Surveying
[1833?]
I herewith enclose my bill for surveying . . . this County Sangamon. . . . To . . . . as Surveyor 	$12.00 To making map 	.50 ----- $12.50 A. LINCOLN

Statement of James Eastep's Account with Henry Onstot

James Eastep to Henry Onstot Dr To 	Sack Salt 	$4 90 1/2 tobacco paid Summers  25 articles paid E. Eastep 	75 articles paid self 	1 50 ----- $7.40 1/2

Mortgage Drawn for William Green, Jr. to Reuben Radford
January 15, 1833
William Green, Jr. to Reuben Radford Know all men by these presents that I William Green Jr. of the County of Sangamon and State of Illinois, for and in consideration of the sum of Two hundred dollars to me in hand paid the receipt whereof I do hereby acknowledge have given granted, bargained and sold and by these presents do give grant bargain and sell, all my right title interest and estate in and to The West half of lot number five, North of Main Street, in the 1st survey in the town of New Salem in the county and State aforesaid together with all and singular the appurtenances thereunto belonging or in anywise appertaining thereunto---Reuben Radford, his heirs, and assigns forever. In testimony whereof I have here-unto set my hand and seal this fifteenth day of January in the year of Our Lord, One Thousand Eight Hundred and Thirty Three. Attest: A. LINCOLN WILLIAM GREEN JR. (SEAL) The condition of the above obligation is such, if the said William Green Jr. shall comply with the requisites of two promissory notes made and executed on this day for the sum of one hundred and eighty-eight dollars and fifty cents each payable to the said Reuben Radford the above Deed of bargain to be null and void and of no effect. But if the said William Green Jr. shall prove insolvent, and utterly unable to comply with the demands of said notes the above deed of bargain is to remain in full force and virtue at law. In testimony whereof the said William Green Jr. and Reuben Radford have hereunto set their hands this 15th of January 1833. WILLIAM GREEN JR. REUBEN RADFORD

Bond of David Rutledge
January 31, 1833
Know all men by these presents that we David Rutledge. William Green Jr. and A. Lincoln are held and firmly bound unto Alexander Trent--- and Martin S. Trent in the penal sum of one hundred and fifty dollars well and truly to be paid unto them---as witness our hands and seals this 31st. of Jany. 1833--- DAVID RUTLEDGE (SEAL) WILLIAM GREEN (SEAL) A. LINCOLN (SEAL) The condition of the above obligation is such If the above bounden David Rutledge shall make a good and lawful deed of conveyance to the said Alexander Trent and Martin S. Trent for the East half of Lot Number five South of Main street in the first survey in the town of New-Salem---on or before the first day of July next the above obligation is to be null void and of no effect---otherwise to remain in full force and virtue at law. In testimony where of the said David Rutledge Alexander Trent and Martin S. Trent have here unto set their hands and seals this 31st. day of January. 1833 DAVID RUTLEDGE (SEAL) M. S. TRENT (SEAL) A. TRENT (SEAL)

Petition to the County Commissioners' Court Concerning a Road from Petersburg to Beardstown
February 4, 1833
To the Honorable the County Commissioners Court of Sangamon County the undersigned Citizens of Petersburg and its Vicinity Respectfully Requests your Honors to grant a Review of a Road to commence at Petersburg and Run in a direction to beardstown to Morgan County Line and appoint th[r]ee suitable persons to Lay out and Mark said Road and your petitioners as in Duty bound will Ever Pray &c--- February 4 1833.

Petition to County CommissionersConcerning Benjamin Elmore
February 9, 1833
To the County Commissioners Court for the County of Sangamon when met at their March term for the year 1833 We the undersigned citizens of Sangamon County being personally acquainted with Benj. Elmore (who also is resident in said County---) and knowing him to be insane and wholly unable to earn a livelihood either by labour or any other employment---and to have no relatives who can be lawfully made chargeable for his maintenance Therefore we respectfully request that his case be taken into considderation by your honorable body--- New Salem Feb. 9, 1833 Bowling Green 	James Clemment 	Joseph Cogdall Robert Cownover  Henry Trent 	Royal Clary Levi Summers 	David Hart 	Jason Duncan Julius Elmore 	Jeremiah Graham 	Robert Loyed Hugh Armstrong 	John Potter 	James Rutledge J R Herndon 	William Cox 	David Whray P S Harvel 	John C. Nance 	A. Lincoln Jacob Bale 	Williamson Trent 	M. S. Trent Josiah Crawford 	Henry Clark 	Martin Waddel

Deed Drawn for Jesse and Christiana Baker
July 26, 1833
This Indenture made this twentysixth day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirtythree between Jesse Baker and Christiana his wife of the county of Sangamon and State of Illinois of the one part---and James Eastep of the county and State aforesaid---of the other part Witnesseth---That the said Jesse Baker and Christiana his wife for and in consideration of the sum of the sum of [ sic ] Five hundred dollars to them in hand pa[id] the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged have given granted bargained and sold and by these presents do give grant bargain and sell all their right title interest and estate in and to the West half of the South east quarter of Section two Township Eighteen north of Range Seven West---containing Eighty acres---also the North East fourth of the South East quarter of Section two in Township Eighteen North of Range Seven West containing Forty acres, both in the district of lands offered for sale at Springfield Illinois---To have and to hold unto the said James Eastep his heirs and assigns for ever the above described tracts of land together with all and singular the previleges and appurtenances thereunto belonging[.] And the said Jesse Baker and Christiana his wife do covenant to and with the said James Eastep to Warrant and forever defend the title of said land against any and all claim or claims of any and all person or persons whomsoever--- In testimony whereof the said Jesse Baker and Christiana his wife have here unto set their hands and seals the day and year above written. B. GREEN JESSE BAKER HUGH ARMSTRONG} CHRISTINIA BAKER

To Eli C. Blankenship
E. C. Blankenship: New Salem, Aug. 10, 1833.
Dear Sir: In regard to the time David Rankin served the enclosed discharge shows correctly---as well as I can recollect---having no writing to refer. The transfer of Rankin from my company occurred as follows---Rankin having lost his horse at Dixon's ferry and having acquaintance in one of the foot companies who were going down the river was desirous to go with them, and one Galishen  being an acquaintance of mine and belonging to the company in which Rankin wished to go wished to leave it and join mine, this being the case it was agreed that they should exchange places and answer to each others names---as it was expected we all would be discharged in very few days. As to a blanket---I have no knowledge of Rankin ever getting any. The above embraces all the facts now in my recollection which are pertinent to the case. I shall take pleasure in giving any further information in my power should you call on me. Your friend, A. LINCOLN.

Letter Written for James Eastep to Edward Mitchell
Mr. Mitchell September 28, 1833
I have resold the land to Jesse Baker for which a Deed was left in your office to be recorded.  If you have not recorded it---it is my request that you should not, but deliver it up to the bearer Jesse Baker. Sept. 28---1833 JAMES EASTEP

Promissory Note to Reuben Radford
October 19, 1833
One day after date we or either of us promise to pay Reuben Radford Three hundred and Seventy nine dollars and eighty two cents for value Received as witness our hands and seals this 19th day of October 1833 W F BERRY (SEAL) A LINCOLN (SEAL) WM GREEN (SEAL)

Appraisal of New Salem Lots Owned by Henry Sinco
October 25, 1833
Illinois Viz---We the Subscribers being Summoned & Sworn by D. Dickinson Deputy Sheriff of Sangamon County to Value Lot No. 5 North of Main Street, in first Survey and Lot No. one in Second Survey of the Town of Salem, Levied on as the property of Henry Sinco to satisfy an Execution in favour of Nelson Alley, do Value Lot No. 5 to $100---& Lot No. one to $50. Given under our hands and Seals this 25th. day of October 1833. Test--- A. LINCOLN (SEAL) H. ARMSTRONG (SEAL) J. CLEMMENT (SEAL)

Certificate of Survey for Russell Godbey
1834 Jany. 14
Surveyed for Russel Godby  ---the West half of the North East quarter of Section 30 in Township 19 North of Range 6 West. Begining at a White oak 12 inches in diameter bearing N 34 E 84 Links a White oak 10 inches S 58 W. 98 Links. Thence Survey for Reason Shipley, January 6, 1834. John Calhoun was surveyor of Sangamon County; chainmen Richard Soward and Alexander Latimer were neighbors of Shipley. Mrs. Herman G. Wilms South 40 chains to a White oak 12 inches. N 73 E. 20 Links. Thence East 20 chains to a Black oak 12 inches S 54 W. 16 Links. Thence North 40 chains to a Post & mound. Thence West 20 chains to the begining Chainmen J. Calhoun, S S C Hercules Demming} BY A. LINCOLN

Petition to County Commissioners
February 25, 1834
To the county commissioners court for the county of Sangamon at its March term 1834--- We the undersigned respectfully request your honorable body to appoint viewers to view and locate a road from Musick's ferry on Salt creek via New Salem to the county line in the direction of Jacksonville Feb. 25th. 1834

Report of a Political Meeting
March 1, 1834
PUBLIC MEETING. At a respectable meeting of the citizens of New Salem, held pursuant to public notice, on Saturday, 1st March, 1834, for the purpose of nominating a suitable person to fill the office of Governor of this State: Bowling Green , Esq, was called to the chair, and A. Lincoln appointed Secretary. The object of the meeting being explained by the chair, Dr. John Allen and Messrs. Nelson Alley and Samuel Hill were appointed a committee, to draft a preamble and resolutions expressive of the sense of the meeting; who, after an absence of a few minutes, presented the following, which were unanimously adopted:--- Whereas the election of our executive officer is always interesting to the people, and should at all times demand their deliberate and serious consideration: and, whereas, the financial and infantile situation of this State is such as to demand more than ever the deliberate attention and united efforts of its inhabitants, for the election of a Chief Magistrate, who is free from and above party and sectarian influence; who respects the rights of his fellow citizens, and who has wisdom to devise, and energy to execute such laws as are conducive to the political happiness of the people, and to the development of the great resources of our State: and, whereas, there is at this time no candidate for that high and responsible office before the people, to whom we can, or to whom, in our opinion, the people in this section of country will give a cordial and hearty support: and whereas we have the most implicit confidence in the honor, integrity and firmness of our fellow citizen, Gen. JAMES D. HENRY  ---therefore Resolved , That the patriotic services, discreet and unaspiring character of Gen. James D. Henry , are such as to merit the confidence of the people of this State; and to place his title to the gubernatorial chair paramount to that of any of the candidates now before the people. Resolved , That we will use every laudable effort to promote the election of General Henry to the first office in the gift of the people of this State, at the next August election; and we recommend him to our fellow citizens, as a suitable person for the office, believing that by choosing him they will confer due honor on an individual, and advance the paramount welfare of the State. Resolved , That the proceedings of this meeting be signed by the Chairman and Secretary, and forwarded to the editors of the Sangamo Journal for publication. And, On motion, the meeting adjourned. A. LINCOLN, Secretary. BOWLING GREEN, Chairman.

Survey for Jesse Gum
March 3rd, 1834
Surveyed for Jesse Gum the following tracts of land ---(viz) 1st. Composed of the North half of Section 32---and the South East quarter of Section 29---the East half and South West fourth of the North East quarter of Section 29 and the South West fourth of North West quarter of Section 28---in Township 18 North of Range 7 West. Begining at the South East corner of said tract at a rock. Thence North 80 chains to a rock. Thence East 20 chains to a rock. Thence North 20 chains to a rock. Thence West 20 chains to a rock. Thence North 20 chains to a rock. Thence West 20 chains to a rock. Thence South 20 chains to a rock[.] Thence West 20 chains to a rock. Thence South 60 chains to a Sugar tree 16 inches in diameter bearing N 62 E. 7 Links---another Sugar tree 10 inches S 35 W. 38 Links. Thence West 40 chains to a Hickory 12 inches S 61 W. 68 Links White Walnut 17 inches N 39 E. 45 Links. Thence South 40 chains to an Elm 10 inches N 24 W. 32 Links---Black Walnut 12 inches S 38 E. 48 Links. Thence East 80 chains to the begining. 2nd. The East half of the South West quarter of Section 28 in the above Township---begining at the South East corner of said quarter at a rock. Thence North 40 chains to a rock. Thence West 20 chains to a rock. Thence South 40 chains to a rock[.] Thence East 20 chains to the begining. 3rd. The South East fourth of the North West quarter of Section 33 in the above Township. Begining at the South East corner of of [ sic ] said quarter at a stake[.] Thence North 20 chains to a stake. Thence West 20 chains to a stake. Thence South 20 chains to a stake. Thence East 20 chains to the begining[.] 4th. The West half of the South East quarter of Section 30 in the above Township. Begining at the South West corner of said quarter at a Mulberry 4 inches S 47 E. 24 Links. Thence North 40 chains to an Overcup  10 inches---S 42 E. 92 Links[.] Thence East---20 chains to an Elm---20 inches. S 57 W. 90 Links. Thence South 40 chains to a Black Oak 18 inches---N 39 E. 7 Links. Thence West 20 chains to the begining. Chainmen  --- J. Calhoun S. SC Jeremiah Davis BY A LINCOLN Thomas Gum---

Election Return
May 5, 1834
At an election held at the house of William F. Berry the New Salem precinct in the county of Sangamon and State of Illinois on the fifth day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty four the following named persons received the number of votes annexed to their respective names for the following described office to wit Garrett Elkin had eighty four votes for Sheriff David Dickinson had seventy seven votes for Sheriff Zechariah Peter had four votes for Sheriff Certified by us BOWLING GREEN } HUGH ARMSTRONG}Judges of the election DAVID WHRAY } Attest A. Lincoln Mentor Graham } Clerks of the election I certify that Hugh Armstrong David Whray Mentor Graham and A. Lincoln were qualified by me according to law as Judges and Clerks of the election BOWLING GREEN J. P.  I certify that Bowling Green was qualified by me according to law as Judge of the election MENTOR GRAHAM 

To the County Commissioners' Court
June , 1834
To the county commissioners court for the county of Sangamon at its June term 1834. We the undersigned being appointed to view and locate a road. Begining at Musick's ferry on Salt Creek. (Via) New Salem to the county line in the direction to Jacksonville---respectfully report---that we have performed the duties of said view and location as required by law and that we have made the location on good ground and believe the establishment of the same to be necessary and proper. The enclosed Map  gives the courses and distances as required by law  MICHAEL KILLION HUGH ARMSTRONG A. LINCOLN

Receipt to Charles R. Matheny
June 3, 1834
Recd of C. R. Matheny Clerk $10.00 depositted by me at the last Term of com. court on application for a road June 3rd 1834 A. LINCOLN

To George C. Spears
Mr. Spears [July 1, 1834]
At your request I send you a receipt for the postage on your paper. I am some what surprised at your request. I will however comply with it. The law requires News paper postage to be paid in advance and now that I have waited a full year you choose to wound my feelings by insinuating that unless you get a receipt I will probably make you pay it again. Respectfully A. LINCOLN Received of George Spears in full for postage on the Sangamo Journal up to the first of July 1834. A. LINCOLN, PM

Election Return
October 27, 1834
At an election held at the house of William F Berry in the New Salem precinct in the county of Sangamon and state of Illinois on the twenty seventh day of October in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty four the following named persons received the number of votes annexed to their respective names for the following described office (to wit) William L. May had Seventy two votes for Representative to congress James Turney had one vote for Representative to congress Benjamin Mills had three votes for Representative to congress certified by us Attest JAMES PANTIER A. LINCOLN POLLARD SIMMONS MENTOR GRAHAM} clerks of the election WILLIAM JONES} Judges of the election I certify that the Judges and Clerks of this Election was Sworn according to Law New Salem, October 27, 1834 BOWLING GREEN J.P. and John Clary Served as Constable

To the County Commissioners' Court
November 4, 1834
To the county commissioner's court for the county of Sangamon--- We the undersigned being appointed to view and relocate a part of the road between Sangamontown and the town of Athens---respectfully report that we have performed the duty of said appointment according to law---and that we have made the said relocation on good ground---and believe the same to be necessary and proper. Athens Nov. 4. 1834. JAMES STRAWBRIDGE--- LEVI CANTRALL--- A. LINCOLN--- Herewith is the map.  The court may allow me the following charges if they think proper--- 1 day's labour as surveyor--- 	$3.00 Making map--- 	50 ---- $3.50. A. LINCOLN

Notice to Illinois Legislature of a Bill to Limit Jurisdiction of Justices of Peace
Mr. Speaker. [December 5, 1834]
I now give notice that on monday next or some day thereafter I shall ask leave to introduce a bill entitled an act to limit the jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace. 

Portion of a Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislature Concerning Estrays
December 6, 1834
. . . . And every person taking up an estray horse, mare or colt, shall within two months after the same is appraised provided the owner shall not have claimed his property during that time deposit with clerk of County Comr. court who shall transmit to the nearest editor of a public newspaper a particular description of such estray or estrays, and the valuation thereof, together with the name of the county and place of residence, certified by the clerk of the county commissioners court, or justice of the peace before whom such estray or estrays was appraised, to be advertised three weeks in said newspaper.  SEC 3 And if no owner appears and proves his property within two years, after such publication, the property shall be vested in the taker up; nevertheless the former owner may at any time thereafter, by proveing his property, recover the valuation money. SEC 4 And if any person shall trade, sell, or take away any such estray or estrays out of the state, for any purpose whatever, before the expiration of said two years, he or she so offending, shall forfeit and pay the sum of, one hundred and fifty dollars to be recovered by any person suing for the same in any court of record within this state having  cognizance thereof---the one Half to the informer and the other half to the County Treasury: and where the owner of any Estray head of neat cattle sheep hog or goat does not prove his property within twelve months after the same has been published at the door of the Court house as aforesaid, and where the valuation does not exceed Five Dollars, the property shall be vested in the taker-up but when the valuation shall exceed Five Dollars, and no owner appears within the time aforesaid, the property shall also be vested in the taker up. Nevertheless the former owner may at any time by proving his property recover the valuation thereof.  And it shall not be lawful for any person to take up any estray (except such as shall be herein after excepted) unless he shall be a free holder or a housekeeper. Any person finding an estray horse, mare, or colt runing at large without any of the settlements of this state may take up the same, and shall immediately take such estray or estrays before the nearest justice of the peace and make oath that he has not altered the marks or brands of such estray or estrays, since taking up; and if such taker up shall be a free holder or housekeeper, within that county it may and shall be lawful for him to post such estray or estrays as herein before directed in this act; as if the same had been taken up on his plantation or place of residence. And when the taker up shall not be qualified as aforesaid he. . . . 

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Limit Jurisdiction of Justices of Peace
[December 9, 1834]
An act to limit the jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace. Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly---That hereafter Justices of the Peace shall not e[n]tertain jurisdiction of any civil case whatever---unless it be in the precinct in which the defende[nt] resides or [ sic ]---or in which the contract on which suit is brought was made and entered into, or made payable---any thing in former laws to the contrary notwithstanding. This act to be in force from and after the first day of June next.

Notice to Illinois Legislatureof a Bill to Authorize Samuel Musick to Build a Toll Bridge
Mr. Speaker [December 9, 1834]
I now give notice that Thursday next,  or some day thereafter I shall ask leave to introduce a bill entitled an act to authorize Samuel Musick  to build a toll bridge across Salt creek in Sangamon county.

Amendment to House Rules
[December 11, 1834]
47. It shall not be in order, to offer amendments to any bill after  its third reading

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Authorize Samuel Musick to Build a Toll Bridge
[December 15, 1834]
An act to authorize Samuel Musick to build a toll bridge across Salt Creek in Sangamon county--- SEC 1. Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly. That Samuel Musick his heirs and assigns be and they are hereby authorized to erect a toll bridge across Salt creek in Sangamon county at or near the place where the said Musick is now authorized to keep a ferry. At either end of said bridge the said Musick, his heirs and assigns, are hereby authorized to place a toll gate, where he or they may ask and demand of all and every person passing, the rates of toll which may from time to time be fixed by the county commissioners court of the county of Sangamon. SEC 2. The said Samuel Musick his heirs and assigns, shall commence the building of said bridge within nine months and have it so far completed within eighteen months from and after the passage of this act as to admit the safe passing of persons, waggons, teams, cattle &c. over it. SEC 3. The said Samuel Musick his heirs and assigns, shall at all times after the completion thereof, keep said bridge in good repair, and allow a speedy passage to all persons and their property over it, upon the receipt of the toll, in such cases allowed as herein before provided---and if at any time the said bridge be left out of repair, so that the same be impassable, for the space of twelve months at any one time, the said bridge shall accrue and belong to the county of Sangamon: Provided however, That the destruction of said bridge by fire, high water or other casualty, shall not work a forfeiture of the previlege hereby granted, but the said Samuel Musick heirs or assigns shall proceed immediately to repair the same. SEC 4. No person shall within ten years hereafter build a bridge, or establish a ferry accross said creek within the distance of one mile above or below the said bridge---provided the said Samuel Musick his heirs or assigns shall erect and keep up said bridge for that space of time as by this act authorized. SEC 5. Whenever the county commissioners of the said county of Sangamon shall deem it expedient to purchase said bridge, they shall have the right so to do by paying the said Samuel Musick his heirs or assigns the original cost of said bridge. And for the purpose of enabling the county commissioners to make said purchase, it shall be the duty of said Samuel Musick his heirs or assigns, to file with the clerk of the county commissioners court of said county such vouchers as shall be deemed sufficient by the commissioners to ascertain the cost of said bridge. SEC 6. If the said Samuel Musick his heirs or assigns shall at any time obstruct the ford in said creek at or near the said bridge, in any manner---he or they so offending---shall forfeit and pay the sum of one hundred dollars, for every such offence to be recovered by action of debt in any court having competent jurisdiction thereof, one half of which shall go to the use of the person informing and the other to the use of the county.  SEC 7th. That the county commissioners of said county have full power to levy a tax on said bridge, as is provided in an act to provide for the establishment of ferries, toll bridges, and turn pike roads: approved February 12th. 1827.

Report of Committeeon Public Accounts and Expenditures Concerning Relief of Purchasers of Vandalia Lots
Mr. Speaker [December 16, 1834]
The committee on public accounts and expenditures, to whom was refered the resolution, requiring said committee to inquire into the expediency of granting further relief to certain purchasers of Vandalia lots,  have directed me to report, that they have had said resolution under consideration and that they are of opinion no further relief ought to be extended to said purchasers---and that they ask to be discharged from the further consideration of said resolution.

Report of Committeeon Public Accounts and Expenditures Concerning the Contingent Fund
Mr Speaker [December 16, 1834]
The committee on public accounts and expenditures to which was refered the report of the Auditor of public accounts relative to the contingent fund have had the same under consideration, and have directed me to report---That in their opinion, the principal part of said fund has not been misapplied. The committee however, are of opinion that some charges which have been allowed are exorbitant---and have resulted in a useless expenditure of the public money. The committee ask to be discharged from the further consideration of this subject.

Speech in Illinois Legislature Concerning the Surveyor of Schuyler County
January 6, 1835
Mr. Lincoln said, That if, as appeared to be the opinion of legal gentlemen, there was no danger of the new surveyor's ousting the old one so long as he persisted not to die---he would suggest the propriety of letting matters remain as they were, so that if the old surveyor should hereafter conclude to die, there would be a new one ready made without troubling the legislature.

Resolution Introduced in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Revenue from the Sale of Public Lands
January 10, 1835
Resolved by the General Assembly of the State of Illinois , That our Senators be instructed, and our Representatives requested to use their whole influence in the Congress, of the United States, to procure the passage of any law relative to the public lands, by the operation of which, the State of Illinois, would be entitled to receive annually, a sum of money not less in amount than 20 per cent upon the amount annually paid into the Treasury of the United States, for public lands lying within the limits of the said State of Illinois. Resolved , That the Governor of this State be requested to forthwith transmit a copy of these resolutions to each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress.

An Act of the Illinois Legislatureto Lay Out a State Road from the Wabash to the Yellow Banks of the Mississippi River
[January 12, 1835]
SEC 1 Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly. That [Parnick Owens of Knox Co. Samuel Allen of Peoria Co. and Robert Bird of Putnam County] be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view, mark and locate a road from a point on the eastern bound'ry line of this State---where a line runing due West from Logansport in the State of Indiana would cross said State line. Thence Westward the nearest and best rout to Allenton at the head of Lake Peoria on the Illinois river. Thence to the seat of justice of Knox county. Thence to the seat of justice of Warren county. Thence to the Lower Yellow Banks on the Mississippi river. SEC 2nd. The said commissioners or a majority of them shall meet at [Knoxville] on or before the [first] day of [June] next and after being duly sworn by some Justice of the Peace---faithfully to view and locate said road without partiality favour or affection, shall immediately thereafter proceed to discharge the duties required of them by this act, placing in the prairy, through which the same shall pass stakes of a reasonable size of durable timber SEC 3. As soon as practicable, after said road is located, said commissioners or a majority of them shall make out a report accompanied by a map or plat of said road denoting the courses and distances from point to point---with such other remarks as they or a majority of them may deem necessary and proper; and transmit the same to the Secretary of state. And they or a majority of them shall make a map or plat of so much of said road as lies within the respective counties, and transmit it to the clerk of the county commissioners court of the respective counties through which the same may pass which shall be filed and preserved in the office of said court. SEC 4. When said road shall be located it shall be to all intents and purposes a state road, four poles wide, and shall be opened and kept in repair as other roads are in this state. SEC 5. The county commissioners court of each county through which the said road may pass are hereby authorized [if they shall think proper]  to allow to said commissioners one dollar and fifty cents per day for the time necessarily employed in locating the said road in each of their respective counties; Provided that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to create any liability on the part of this state to pay said commissioners for their services, rendered under the authority of this act. This act to be in force from and after its passage.

Amendment to a Bill Concerning Marks and Brands
[January 17, 1835]
Strike out all of the first section after the enacting clause. Prefix the word ``that'' to the second section Annex to the third Section the following (viz) That each certificate so made out shall be filed with the clerk of the county commissioners' court within ten days after obtaining the same

Speech in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Apportionment of Representation in the State
January 21, 1835
Mr. LINCOLN said, the reasons offered by the gentleman from Madison would certainly induce him to go against the resolution. The gentleman had said that there would be a difficulty in fixing the Senatorial districts; and, sir, in my humble opinion, there would be an insurmountable difficulty. The districts cannot be arranged, and with a full knowledge of this fact, I have no doubt the House will lay the resolution on the table until the 4th day of July---at least I will vote in that way.

An Act of the Illinois Legislatureto Locate a State Road Therein Named, and for Other Purposes
[January 22, 1835]
SEC 1st Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly. That so much of the State road, leading from Jacksonville in Morgan county to Quincy in Adams county established by an act entitled ``An act to locate a state road from Jacksonville in Morgan county to Quincy in Adams county, and for other purposes, approved February 25---1833---as lies between  Illinois river and the Western boundry line of Schuyler county be and the same is hereby vacated. SEC 2nd Be it further enacted That John Taylor Senr. Benjamin Kindrick  and Harvey Luster of the county of Schuyler, be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view, mark and locate a state road from a point on the West bank of Illinois river opposite Meredocia [ sic ]. Thence the nearest and best route through Mount Sterling to the Western boundry line of Schuyler county in the direction of Quincy, doing as little injury to private property as the public conveniance will permit. SEC. 3rd. Said commissioners or a majority of them shall meet at Mount Sterling on the first Monday in May next, or within one month thereafter; and after being duly sworn by some Justice of the peace, faithfully to perform the duties required of them by this act, shall proceed to locate said road accordingly. Said road shall be marked in the prairy by suitable stakes well set in the earth, and in the timbered land by hacks, and blazes upon the trees---they shall make a return of the location thereof to the county commissioners court of Schuyler county, particularly noting all the principal places upon and near said road. Said commissioners shall receive for their services one dollar and fifty cents each per day for all the time necessarily employed in said work to gether with a reasonable compensation for one hand as a marker, which sum shall be paid by the county of Schuyler. Said road shall in all respects be deemed a public highway and shall be opened and kept in repair as other state roads are.

Notice to Illinois Legislature of a BillRelative to a State Road Therein Named
Mr. Speaker [January 27, 1835]
I now give notice that on Thursday next I shall ask leave to introduce a bill for an act relative to a state road therein named

Bill Introduced in Illinois LegislatureRelative to a State Road Therein Named
[January 29, 1835]
SEC 1 Be it enacted by the people of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly. That Reuben Harrison,  John Clary and Tandy James be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view, mark and permanently locate so much of the state road, leading from Springfield in Sangamon county to Lewiston in Fulton county, as lies between Springfield and George G. Miller's ferry on the Sangamo river. SEC 2. Said commissioners or a majority of them shall meet at the town of Springfield on the second Monday in March next or as soon thereafter as practicable and after being duly sworn by some officer authorized to administer oaths, shall proceed to perform the duties required of them by this act; avoiding as much as possible the injury of private property. SEC 3 The said commissioners shall as soon thereafter as convenient, cause to be filed with the clerk of the county commissioner's court of the county of Sangamon a report and complete map of said road---which report and map shall be preserved and shall form a part of the record of said court. Said road when so established shall be kept in repair as other state roads are. SEC 4 The county commissioners court of Sangamon county shall allow to said commissioners, out of the county treasury; such compensation, as, to them shall seem just and reasonable.

Certificate of Survey for William McNeely
1835 March 10
Surveyed for William McNeely a part of the of the [ sic ] South West fractional quarter of Section 30 in Township 18 North of Range 7 West. Begining at the middle of Gum's branch where the Eastern boundry line of said fraction crosses the same at an Ash 7 inches in diameter bearing N 28 W 48 links. Thence North 18 chains to the North East corner of said fraction at an Overcup 10 inches S 42 E 92 links. Thence West 8 chains & 95 links to a White Oak 10 inches S 36 E 43 links. Thence South 17 chains & 57 links to the middle of the aforesaid branch at a Hackberry 7 inches N 28 W 48 links. Thence up the branch with it's meanderings to the begining. Also, the West half of the South West quarter of Section 21 in the afforesaid Township. Begining at the South West corner of the same at a Post & Mound. Thence East 20 chains to a Post & Mound. Thence North 40 chains to a Post & Mound. Thence West 20 chains to a Post & Mound. Thence South 40 chains to the begining. John Calhoun S.S.C. BY A. LINCOLN

Certificate of Survey for Archibald Kincaid
1835 March 24
Surveyed for Archibald Kincaid the North West forth of the North East quarter of Section 33 in Township 18 North of Range 6 West. Begining at the North West corner of the same at a White Oak 12 inches in diameter bearing N 85 E 17 Links. White Oak 13 inches S 66 W 58 Links. Thence S 88 E 20 chains & 21 Links to a White Oak 9 inches S 25 W 27 Links. Thence South 20 chains to a White Oak 24 inches East side corner. Thence N 88 W 20 chains & 21 Links to a Spanish Oak 20 inches---corner. Thence North 20 chains to the begining. J. Calhoun SSC BY A. LINCOLN

Certificate of Survey for John K. Kincaid
1835 March 24
Surveyed for John K. Kincaid, the following tracts of land 1st. The South East fourth of the South West quarter of Section 28. 2nd. A part of the East half of the South East quarter of Section 23---both in Township 18 North of Range 6 West. 1st. Begining at the South East corner of the same at a White Oak 12 inches in diameter bearing N 85 E. 17 Links White Oak 13 inches. S 66 W. 58 Links. Thence N 89 W 20 chains to a Burr Oak 11 inches N 59 W. 19 Links[.] Thence North 20 chains to a White Oak 12 inches S 27 W 55 Links. Thence S 89 E 20 chains to a White Oak 22 inches S 4 W. 51 Links. Thence South 20 chains to the begining. 2nd. Begining at the North East corner of the same at a White Oak 14 inches S 16 W. 78 Links White Oak 10 inches N 1 E. 66 Links. Thence N 88 W. 10 chains & 17 Links to a White Oak 24 inches S 76 E. 91 Links. Thence South 29 chains & 49 Links to a Lynn 14 inches S 51 E. 46 Links[.] Thence S 88 E. 10 chains & 17 Links to a Black Walnut 16 inches N 88 W. 32 Links. Thence North 29 chains & 49 Links to the begining. J. Calhoun S.S.C. BY---A. LINCOLN

To Francis P. Blair, Sr. and John C. Rives
Messrs New Salem Ills Nov. 3. 1835.
Your subscriber at this place John C Vance ,  is dead; and no person takes the paper from the office Respectfully, Blair & Rives. A. LINCOLN P.M.

To Joseph Duncan
Dear Sir Nov. 10th. 1835
Understanding that Mr. Levi Davis  of Vandalia, is an applicant for the office of Auditor of Public Accounts, I take the liberty to say to you, that his appointment to that office would be entirely satisfactory to me, and, I doubt not, to most others who are the friends of qualification [ sic ] and---merit--- Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas J. Nance
Dear Sir Vandalia. Decr. 10. 1835
In regard to the South half of Sec. 36. in Town 7 North Range 1 West the following is the only information that can be collected at the Auditors office. The S.W. quarter of said section was sold in 1823 to Daniel Hough for the tax of 1821 & 2. Half of the other quarter was sold in 1827 to Jesse Bartlett for the tax of 1826. The other 80 acres have not been sold for taxes. The residence of neither of the purchasers is known at the office. There is but little of interest doing in the Legislature as yet: owing mostly to the census returns from several counties not having been made. Respectfully A. LINCOLN Siegel Auction, May 5, 1993

Notice to Illinois Legislatureof a Bill Supplemental to an Act Entitled ``An Act for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors . . .''
Mr. Speaker [December 10, 1835]
I now give notice that on saturday next  I shall ask leave to introduce a bill, for an act suplemental to an act entitled an act for the relief of insolvent debtors approved January 12th. 1829

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Relocate Part of State Road Leading from Crow's in Morgan County to Musick's Bridge in Sangamon County
[December 11, 1835]
A bill for ``an act to relocate a part of the State road leading from Crow's,  in Morgan county to Musick's bridge in Sangamon county.'' SEC 1 Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That James Goldsby, David Batterton, and Charles Broadwell be, and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view mark, and locate so much of the state road leading from Crow's in Morgan county to Musick's bridge in Sangamon county, as lies between the head of Richland creek, and the Sangamo river. SEC 2. The said commissioners, or a majority of them, shall meet at the house of Peter Cartwright,  on the first monday in March next, or as soon there after as practicable, and after being duly sworn, shall proceed to perform the duties required of them by this act, avoiding as much as possible the injury of private property SEC 3. The said commissioners shall, as soon as convenient cause to be filed with the clerk of the county commissioner's court of Sangamon county a report & complete map of said road, which report and map shall be preserved, and shall form a part of the record of said court. Said road, when so established, shall be kept in repair as other State roads are SEC 4. The county commissioners court of Sangamon county, shall allow to said commissioners, out of the county Treasury, such compensation as to them shall seem just and reasonable

Resolution Introduced in Illinois LegislatureConcerning the Incorporation of a Canal Company
December 11, 1835
Resolved , That a select committee of five be appointed to inquire into the expediency of incorporating a company to construct a canal upon the valley of the Sangamon river, and that they report by bill or otherwise.

Amendment to an Act to Incorporate the Beardstown and Sangamon Canal Company
[December 12, 1835]
SEC 13. The State, or the counties through which the said canal shall pass, shall, at any time, after ten years shall have elapsed, from the completion of said canal, have the previlege of purchasing the same, by paying said company the original cost, together with any deficiency which may have accrued by a failure of said canal to produce twelve per cent per annum from the time of it's completion, upon the original cost

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Supplement ``An Act for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors . . .''
[December 12, 1835]
A bill for an act suplemental to an act entitled an act for the relief of insolvent debtors approved January 12th. 1829 SEC. 1 Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois, represented in the General Assembly: That during the absence of the Judge of Probate from the county: and during the vacancy of the office of Judge of Probate, by death, resignation, or otherwise, in any county or counties of this State it shall be the duty of any Justice of the Peace of such county or counties, on application made to him, to perform all duties required of the Judges of Probate, by the act to which this is suplemental SEC. 2 It shall be the duty of any sheriff or other officer having the custody of any person, to convey such person before some Justice of the Peace of the proper county, upon application made for that purpose: provided such person would have the right under the third section of the act to which this is suplemental, to demand his conveyance before the Judge of Probate

Bill Introduced in Illinois LegislatureConcerning the County of Schuyler
[December 15, 1835]
A bill for an Act concerning Schuyler County SEC 1 Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That the county commissioner's court, for the county of Schuyler, shall order the Judges of elections for the several precincts in said county, at the election to be holden on the first monday in August in the year one thousand eight hundred and thirty six, to open two columns, in their respective poll books, in addition to those necessary for the election of public officers: one of which columns shall be headed ``Division'' and the other ``No division'' SEC 2 The qualified voters of said county, who may be in favour of a division of said county shall vote upon the column headed ``Division'' and all those opposed to such division, shall vote upon the column headed ``No division'' SEC 3. The clerk of the county commissioner's court of the said county of Schuyler shall, on receiving full returns of the elections of said county, proceed to count the votes given upon the said additional columns, and if the number in favour of a division shall exceed the number against it, the said clerk shall certify and transmit an account of the same to the Secretary of State, whose duty it shall be to lay the same before this General Assembly at it's next session. SEC 4. If the voters of said county shall vote the division contemplated by this act, the line of division shall be as follows (viz) Begining at the mouth of Crooked creek on the Illinois River. Thence up said creek with it's meanderings to the Northern boundry line of Township No. one North. Thence West with said line, to the line dividing Ranges Three and Four West. Thence North with said line to the Northern boundry line of Township No. Two North. Thence West with said line to the corner of Hancock and Adams counties: All that portion of the said county of Schuyler lying South and West of said division line, shall thence forward constitute and form a new county. Provided that said new county shall remain attached to the county of Schuyler for all county purposes until it's organization be provided for by law.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Relocate a Part of a State Road Leading from Springfield to Lewiston
[December 15, 1835]
A bill for an Act to relocate a part of the State road leading from Springfield to Lewiston. Be it enacted by the people of Illinois represented in the General Assembly, that so much of the State road leading from Springfield to Lewiston as lies between the Northern boundry of Township No. Eighteen North and the residence of John Jones, shall be so changed as to run due North from the point where said road now cross the afforesaid Township line, through the centre of the South West quarter of Section thirty four, Township Nineteen North Range Seven West, to the Northern boundry of said quarter: thence with the road as now traveled to the residence of the said John Jones.

Amendment Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Section Eight of the Illinois and Michigan Canal Bill
December 21, 1835
The Governor, during the recess of the General Assembly, for any good cause, shall have power to remove any or all of the said commissioners from office, and to supply vacancies occasioned by such removals, which appointments shall continue until other appointments are made by the General Assembly.

Amendment to an Act to Incorporate the Subscribers to the Bank of the State of Illinois
[December 22, 1835]
SEC 5 The said corporation shall, at the next session of this General Assembly, and at each subsequent general session, during the existence of it's charter, report to the same, the amount of debts due from said corporation, the amount of debts due to the same, the amount of specie in it's vaults, and and [ sic ] an account of all lands then owned by the same, and the amount for which such lands have been taken: and moreover, if said corporation shall, at any time neglect or refuse, to submit it's books, papers, and all and every thing necessary to a full and fair examination of it's affairs, to any person or persons appointed by the General Assembly for the purpose of making such examination, the said corporation shall forfeit it's charter.

Amendment to BillIntroduced in Illinois Legislature to Incorporate the Sangamon Fire Insurance Company
[December 22 (?) 1835]
Amend by inserting these names John Taylor. 	Samuel Morris 	Saml. H. Treat John Williams 	N. A. Rankin 	Ninian W Edwards George Pasfield 	Joseph Klein 	Elijah Iles James Bell 	Thomas Houghan 	Nicholas A. Bryant

Resolution Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Instruct Committee on Public Accounts and Expenditures to Inquire into the Publishing of State Laws
[December 26, 1835]
Resolved, that the committee on public accounts and expenditures, be instructed to enquire into the expediency of authorizeing the publishing of the State laws, of a general nature, in the public Newspapers, and, that they report by bill or otherwise.

Notes of a Survey Made for David Hart
1836
A part of the West half of the South East quarter of Section 13 in Township 17 North of Range 7 West of the 3rd Principal Meridian and bounded as follows (viz) Begining at the South East corner of said half quarter. Thence West, with the Southern boundary line, 10 chains and 7 links. Thence North 12 chains & 40 links to the centre of the channel of Rock creek. Thence down Rock creek with it's meanderings to the place where the line dividing the East & West halves of the above named quarter, crosses the same. Thence South with said dividing line to the begining. Containing 12 acres and 48 hundredths of an acre, more or less. 1836

Report to Illinois Legislature on State Expenses
[January 2, 1836]
The committee on Public accounts and expenditures, who were required, by a resolution of the House,  to asscertain the probable amount of money necessary for defraying the expenses of the State for the succeeding year, report the following--- Contingent fund 	$ 4.000 Penitentiary 	750 Interest on Wiggins loan 	6.000 Governor's salary 	1.000 Auditor's do 	1.600 Treasurer's do 	1.600 Sec. State's do 	1.100 Supreme Judges do 	4.000 Circuit do do 	4.500 Attorneys do 	1.850 Agent of Ohio Salines--- 	200 Warden of Penitentiary 	400 Public Printer 	2.000 Counties on the Bounty tract--- 	4.150 Special appropriations and incidental expenses 	6.000 General Assembly for Session of 1836, 7 	37.000 ----- Making in the whole 	76.150 To which add the expenses of the present session of the General Assembly--- 	13.000 ----- Total 	$ 89 150

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Establish a State Road from Peoria to Pekin
[January 9, 1836]
A bill for an act establishing a State road leading from Peoria via Pekin to the State road leading from Springfield to Peoria SEC. 1 Be it enacted by the people of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That Madison Allen William Rankin & Theodorus Fisher be, and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view, mark, and locate a State road, begining at the town of Peoria, in the county of Peoria, Thence down the river on the North West side of the same crossing the same at Pekin in the county of Tazewell. Thence in a South Easterly direction till the same intersects the road leading from Springfield to Peoria. SEC. 2 The said commissioners or a majority of them shall meet at the town of Peoria on the second monday of Aprile  next, or as soon thereafter as practicable, and after being duly sworn, shall proceed to perform the duties required of them by this act, avoiding, as much [as] the public good will permit, the injury of private property. SEC 3 The said commissioners, shall, as soon thereafter as convenient, cause to be filed with the clerk of the county commissioner's court for the county of Peoria, a report, and correct map of so much of said road as may be located in the said county of Peoria and also, with the clerk of the county commissioners court for the county of Tazewell, a like report and map of so much of said road as may be located in the said county of Tazewell, and the said reports and maps shall be preserved and shall form parts of the records of said courts respectively [.] Said road, when so established, shall be kept in repair as other State roads are. SEC. 4. The county commissioners courts of the said counties of Peoria and Tazewell may  allow to said commissioners, out of their county Treasuries respectively, such compensation as to them shall seem just and reasonable. SEC. 5. Be it further enacted that the Commissioners Court of the County of Tazewell be and they are hereby authorized and directed to recieve and confirm the Report of Thomas Griffith Benjamin Briggs and Joshua Brown or a majority of them---Commissioners appointed by an Act entitled ``An Act to change a State Road therein named, [''] approved Feb 6. 1835. to review & relocate any part of the State Road leading from Pekin to Danville lying between the Towns of Pekin and Mackinaw. Provided said Report has been or shall be presented to said Court on or before the first monday of June next SEC 6. The Road when reported as aforesaid shall be considered a state Road in every respect as though said Report had been made within the time prescribed by the act aforesaid.

Petition to County Commissioners Concerning Benjamin Elmore
February 3, 1836.
To the county commissioners court for the county of Sangamon. We the undersigned being personally acquainted with the insane son of Travice Elmore for whose maintenance an allowance from the county treasury has already been made,  believe that the allowance is much too small, and therefore recommend that it be increased to a fair compensation for the maintenance and management of an absolute mad man. Feb. 3rd. 1836

Advertisement for a Lost Horse
March 26, 1836
FROM a stable in Springfield, on Wednesday, 18th inst.  a large bay horse, star in his forehead, plainly marked with harness; supposed to be eight years old; had been shod all round, but is believed to have lost some of his shoes, and trots and paces. Any person who will take up said horse, and leave information at the Journal office, or with the subscriber at New-salem, shall be liberally paid for their trouble. A. LINCOLN.

To Levi Davis
Dear Sir New Salem Ills, April 4th. 1836
You will confer a favour on me by examining the Record kept by the old State Recorder, and ascertaining whether a deed for the N.W. quarter of Section 23. in Town 10 North Range 5 West in the Bounty tract, made by Williamson Trent to Michael Mcdierman has ever been recorded in that office, and if so, whether the record shows that the land has been transfered by Mcdierman, and if it has, who is the present owner under him. Also please to give me all the information in your office in regard to sales of said land for taxes, and who is the present owner by tax title. Verry respectfully, Your Obt. Servt. Levi Davis Esqr. A. LINCOLN

To the Editor of theSangamo Journal
NEW SALEM, June 13, 1836.
To the Editor of the Journal: In your paper of last Saturday, I see a communication over the signature of ``Many Voters,'' in which the candidates who are announced in the Journal, are called upon to ``show their hands.'' Agreed. Here's mine! I go for all sharing the privileges of the government, who assist in bearing its burthens. Consequently I go for admitting all whites to the right of suffrage, who pay taxes or bear arms, (by no means excluding females.) If elected, I shall consider the whole people of Sangamon my constituents, as well those that oppose, as those that support me.  While acting as their representative, I shall be governed by their will, on all subjects upon which I have the means of knowing what their will is; and upon all others, I shall do what my own judgment teaches me will best advance their interests. Whether elected or not, I go for distributing the proceeds of the sales of the public lands to the several states, to enable our state, in common with others, to dig canals and construct rail roads, without borrowing money and paying interest on it. If alive on the first Monday in November, I shall vote for Hugh L. White for President.  Very respectfully, A. LINCOLN.

To Robert Allen
Dear Col. New Salem, June 21. 1836
I am told that during my absence last week, you passed through this place, and stated publicly, that you were in possession of a Survey of a School Section, May 10, 1836 Illinois State Historical Library Survey of Huron, Illinois, May 21, 1836 IHi Survey of a Road near Watkins Mill, June 2, 1836 Illinois State Historical Library Survey of Albany, Illinois, June 16, 1836 fact or facts, which, if known to the public, would entirely destroy the prospects of N. W. Edwards  and myself at the ensuing election; but that, through favour to us, you should forbear to divulge them. No one has needed favours more than I, and generally, few have been less unwilling to accept them; but in this case, favour to me, would be injustice to the public, and therefore I must beg your pardon for declining it. That I once had the confidence of the people of Sangamon, is sufficiently evident, and if I have since done any thing, either by design or misadventure, which if known, would subject me to a forfeiture of that confidence, he that knows of that thing, and conceals it, is a traitor to his country's interest. I find myself wholly unable to form any conjecture of what fact or facts, real or supposed, you spoke; but my opinion of your veracity, will not permit me, for a moment, to doubt, that you at least believed what you said. I am flattered with the personal regard you manifested for me, but I do hope that, on more mature reflection, you will view the public interest as a paramount consideration, and, therefore, determine to let the worst come. I here assure you, that the candid statement of facts, on your part, however low it may sink me, shall never break the tie of personal friendship between us. I wish an answer to this, and you are at liberty to publish both if you choose Verry Respectfully, A. LINCOLN.

Speech at a Political Rally in the Court House at Springfield, Illinois
July 11, 1836
Mr. Lincoln succeeded Mr. Calhoun.  At first he appeared embarrassed, and his air was such as modest merit always lends to one who speaks of his own acts. He claimed only so much credit as belonged to one of the members of the last Legislature, for getting the State out of debt. He next came to Mr. Calhoun and the land bill.  At one fell stroke, he broke the ice upon which we have seen Mr. Calhoun standing, and left him to contend with the chilling waters and merciless waves. His speech became more fluent, and his manner more easy as he progressed. In these degenerate days it seems to be the fashion of the day for all parties to admire even the frailties of the administration. The Van Buren men, particularly, are even taking shelter like ghosts under the rotten bones and tombstones of the dead acts of the administration. Mr. Lincoln, however, lifted the lid, and exposed to the eye the wretched condition of some of the acts of the Van Buren party. A girl might be born and become a mother before the Van Buren men will forget Mr. Lincoln. From beginning to end Mr. Lincoln was frequently interrupted by loud bursts of applause from a generous people.

Petition to County Commissioners' Court Concerning Road Scrapers
August, 1836
To the Honorable the County Commissioners' Court of Sangamon County Illinois. Whereas, in the opinion of the under-signed petitioners the ``public good'' requires that said Court take suitable steps to furnish ``Scrapers'' on the public roads within the County,---not only for the purpose of economizing labor, but for the more necessary and laudable object of facilitating, cheapening and comforting the business and travelling operations of our common County. Your peti[ti]oners will not presume to extend remarks or argue the propriety of the above suggesting, believing that the Court will fully appreciate this hint, sanctioned alike by ``Law'' and the just claims of the road-laboring community. And whereas, a ``Road Tax'' was laid on lands for 1836 by sd. Court the labor accruing to roads from which source will be applied this coming fall, we further suggest the propriety of attending forthwith to this request, that we may enjoy the use of such improvements as may be made in our roads. August 1836

Will of Joshua Short
In the name of God: Amen August 22, 1836
I, Joshua Short, of the county of Sangamon and State of Illinois, being infirm in body but of sound mind and memory do ordain and establish the following as my last will and testament revoking all others. It is my will that all my debts, if any there be, be immediately paid at my decease. It is my will that all my property be disposed of at my decease, as follows (viz) It is my will that my dearly beloved wife Parthena Short shall have and retain all the property that she had at the time of my marriage with her, or that she has since made. It is further my will that, if she, my said wife, shall, at my decease, desire to go [to] her relations, she shall be conveyed thence at the expense of my estate. It is my will that, after the above provisions are carried into effect, all the remaining part of my estate be equally divided between my three sons, Joseph Short, John Short, and William Short, and my three daughters, Sarah Bennett, Chloe Thomas and Elizabeth Short, and my grandson Allen Short, being the son of my deceased son James Short. It is my will that my son John Short, and my son-in-law James Short be the executors of this my last will and testament In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal this twentysecond day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirtysix. his JOSHUA X SHORT (SEAL) mark Attest A. LINCOLN John Tillie his Josiah X Cook mark

Petition to County CommissionersConcerning Relocation of Road from Watkins Mill to the County Line
[September 4, 1836]
To the county commissioner's court for the county of Sangamon, State of Illinois We the undersigned respectfully request that your Honorable body pass an order relocating so much of the road leading from Watkin's Mill via Miller's ferry to the county line in the direction of Pekin, as lies between the Morgan county line and the Range line dividing Ranges 7 and 8 so as to make the same run from it's present begining on a right line to a point four poles North of the door of Charles Simmons' present dwelling. Thence on a right line to where said road now crosses the afforesaid Range line. A. Lincoln 	Julius Simmons 	Moris Hutches B, Winton 	Henry Dick 	William Edwards B, Kilborne 	A Conkey 	Amos Ogden R Simmons 	Absalom Bowling 	Charles Simmons M L Hutches 	Daniel Robinson 	Jonathan Lowndsbury

To Ira I. Fenn
Dr. Sir. Springfield, Oct. 6. 1836
By direction of Judge Lockwood,  I send you this with it's contents Yours &c. A. LINCOLN Ira I. Fenn Esqr.

Surveys for Alvin Ringo
November 16, 17, 1836
1836 Nov 16} Surveyed for Ringo a tract of land composed of parts of Sections 30 & 31 in Township 18 North of Range 7 West and bounded as follows viz. Beginning on the line dividing Ranges 7 & 8 at a point 6 chains & 81 links North of the North West corner of the said Section 31 at a White Oak 16 inches in diameter bearing N. 43 1/2 E. 48 links. Thence East 14 chains & 93 links to a White Oak 36 inches N 50 W 32 links. Thence South 20 chains & 7 links to a sugar tree 14 inches N 29 W 53 links. Thence West 14 chains & 93 links to a Hickory 14 inches S. 22 E 19 links. Thence North 20 chains & 7 links to the beginning T. M. Neale s. s. c. BY A. LINCOLN 1836 Nov 17} For the same a part of the North half of Section 5 in Township 17 North of Range 7 West and bounded as follows (viz) Begining at the most Northerly corner of a tract situated on the said Section 5, and sold to Lewis L Cooper by Robert Cownover.  Thence S 47 W 8 chains & 42 links to a Black Oak 11 inches corner. Thence S 70 E. 22 chains & 1 links to a White Oak 16 inches N 26 W 45 links. Thence N 29 E. 4 chains & 50 links to a White Oak 24 inches S 73 W 20 links. Thence N 61 W 19 chains & 2 links to the begining. Also a part of the East half of the South West quarter of the said Section 5, and bounded as follows. (viz) Begining at the South East corner of said half quarter at a White Oak 16 inches S 63 W 62 links. a White Oak 15 inches N 75 E 76 links. Thence N 89 W 19 chains & 71 links to a Post & Mound. Thence North 3 chains to a stake. Thence S 89 E. 19 chains & 71 links to a stake. Thence South 3 chains to the begining. T. M Neale, s. s. c. BY A. LINCOLN ADs, CtY

Petition to County Commissioners' Courtfor a Road Commencing at Middletown
[November 30, 1836]
To the Honorable the county commissioner's court for the county of Sangamon, Illinois. We, the undersigned, citizens of Sangamon county respectfully request, that your Honorable body will pass an order for the establishment of a county road to commence at Middletown near Musick's bridge. Thence the nearest and best rout to Meaddows' Mill at the Sugar Grove. Thence, as near as the ground will permit, with the Section line runing one mile North of the Northern boundry of Townships Eighteen, to the county line.

To Mary S. Owens
Mary Vandalia, Decr. 13 1836
I have been sick ever since my arrival here,  or I should have written sooner. It is but little difference, however, as I have verry little even yet to write. And more, the longer I can avoid the mortification of looking in the Post Office for your letter and not finding it, the better. You see I am mad about that old letter yet. I dont like verry well to risk you again. I'll try you once more any how. The new State House  is not yet finished, and consequently the legislature is doing little or nothing. The Governor  delivered an inflamitory political Message, and it is expected there will be some sparring between the parties about [it as] soon as the two Houses get to business. Taylor  [deliv]ered up his petitions for the New County to one of [our me]mbers this morning. I am told that he dispairs [of its] success on account of all the members from Morg[an C]ounty opposing it. There are names enough on the petitions[,] I think, to justify the members from our county in going for it; but if the members from Morgan oppose it, which they [say] they will, the chance will be bad. Our chance to [take th]e seat of Government to Springfield is better than I ex[pected]. An Internal Improvement Convention was held here since we met, which recommended a loan of several milli[ons] of dollars on the faith of the State to construct Rail Roads. Some of the legislature are for it[,] and some against it; which has the majority I can not tell. There is great strife and struggling for the office of U.S. Senator here at this time. It is probable we shall ease their pains in a few days. The opposition men have no candidate of their own, and consequently they smile as complacently at the angry snarls of the contending Van Buren candidates and their respective friends, as the christain does at Satan's rage. You recollect I mentioned in the outset of this letter that I had been unwell. That is the fact, though I believe I am about well now; but that, with other things I can not account for, have conspired and have gotten my spirits so low, that I feel that I would rather be any place in the world than here. I really can not endure the though of staying here ten weeks. Write back as soon as you get this, and if possible say something that will please me, for really I have not [been] pleased since I left you. This letter is so dry and [stupid] that I am ashamed to send it, but with my pres[ent feel]ings I can not do any better. Give my respects to M[r. and] Mrs. Abell  and family. Your friend Miss Mary S. Owens LINCOLN

Resolution in the Illinois Legislatureto Request Doorkeeper of the House to Make a Statement Concerning Need for an Assistant Doorkeeper
[December 20, 1836]
Resolved that the door-keeper of this House, be now requested to state publicly to this body, whether, in his opinion, an assistant doorkeeper is necessary.

Speech in Illinois LegislatureReporting a Bill with Amendments to Establish a New County
December 21, 1836
Mr. Lincoln said, that as a member of the committee, he would state that the bill before the House was a matter of compromise. He was willing to take the bill, because before any division of Sangamo could take place, the bill declared that the people of Sangamo should themselves so decide. He would sustain the bill as it stood, the new county would be too small if lessened. He was opposed to offering to the people a territory too small for their acceptance.

Discussion in Illinois LegislatureConcerning the Division of Sangamon County
December 21, 1836
Mr. Lincoln then moved that the report of the minority be spread upon the Journals, in order he said, that his constituents might see that report. Mr. Linder  said, that for one, he should vote against the motion. He could see no advantage that could result to any body, by placing this minority report upon the pages of the journal. It was subjecting the State to needless expense in printing. There were many other ways by which the gentleman from Sangamon could get the report among his constituents, without putting it upon the journals of the House. Mr. Lincoln replied that he claimed the right to know what was due to his constituents as much as any gentleman, and especially as much as one who was not their representative. He had made the motion to spread the report on the journal, because he thought it due to his constituents, and no more than a common act of courtesy from the House, to comply. Mr. L. said, he hoped that all that had been said on this subject, would go to his constituents. He thought it uncourteous, and a departure from the rules of etiquette, for the gentleman from Coles to meddle in the matter at all; but if the House chooses to go by the views of that gentleman, so be it; I am content. Mr. L. said he did not think the small expense to the State which the printing of the report would incur, the whole object of gentlemen, in opposing his motion. The intention is to affect my constituents. 

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Organize the County of Van Buren
[December 24, 1836]
SECTION 1 Be it enacted by the people of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly that all that tract of country lying within the following boundaries, to wit: Begining at the North West corner of Sangamon county on the Illinois river and runing from thence East along the North line of said county to the North East corner of Township No. 20 North of Range No. 5 West. Thence South along the Range line between Ranges four and five to the South East corner of Township No. Eighteen North of Range No. five West. Thence diagonally across Ranges, five, six, and seven West to the South West corner of Township No. Seventeen North of Range No. Seven West. Thence West along the line between Townships No. sixteen and seventeen to the line between Sangamon and Morgan counties. Thence North along the line between Sangamon and Morgan counties to the Sangamon river. Thence along the channel of the said Sangamon river to it's junction with the Illinois river; and thence following the meanders of Illinois river to the place of begining, shall constitute a new county to be called the county of Van Buren  SEC 2ND. The permanent seat of Justice for said county shall be the village of Petersburg, and the public buildings thereof shall be erected on the public square recorded in the plat of said town as public ground: Provided  that unless the proprietors of the said village of Petersburg shall convey to the said county of Van Buren for the purpose of the erection of public buildings, one fourth of all the lots of the said village, the seat of justice of said county shall not be located at the said village of Petersburg; but shall be located by commissioners hereinafter named, at some point not more than one mile and a half from the geographical centre of said county. SEC 3RD. The county commissioners for said county, when elected under the provisions of this act, shall immediately appoint some suitable person, as agent, whose duty it shall be to call upon the proprietors of said village of Petersburg or their agent, and notify them or him, that he is ready to make the selection of the lots aforesaid, on behalf of the county; and if the said proprietors or their agent agree to said selection, the said agent for the county, shall proceed to make the selection by choosing one lot, and allowing the said proprietors or their agent to choose three, and so proceed till the whole selection is made: Provided that the paying over, by the proprietors of the said village of Petersburg, to the county commissioners of the said new county, one fourth of the proceeds of the sales of the lots already sold shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with the provisions of this act in regard to the lots so sold.  SEC 4 If the said proprietors shall neglect or refuse, for a longer term than ten days after the said agent for the county has notified them that he is ready to make the selection as aforesaid, to convey to the county commissioners for the use of said county the lots selected, or offered to be selected, by said agent, the said county commissioners shall give notice to John Henry of Morgan county, Benjamin Mitchell of Tazewell county, and Samuel Hackelton of Fulton county, that they are appointed commissioners to locate the seat of Justice of said county, whose duty it shall be to meet at the said village of Petersburg on the second monday of August next, and after being duly sworn by some Justice of the Peace, faithfully and impartially to discharge their duties, shall proceed to locate the seat of justice of said county according to the provisions of this act; which location shall be the permanent seal of justice of said county.  SEC 5 The county commissioners of said county shall allow, out of the county treasury, the sum of three dollars to each of said commissioners for each day they may have been necessarily employed in making said location.  SEC 6 The said new county of Van Buren shall constitute a part of first judicial circuit, and a circuit shall be held for said county at some convenient place in the village of Petersburg until the public buildings shall be erected. The time for holding said courts shall be appointed by the Judge presiding on said circuit.  SEC 7 All Justices of the Peace and constables now commissioned in and for the county of Sangamon that now reside within the boundaries of the aforesaid county of Van Buren shall hold their offices in and for the said new county of Van Buren. SEC 8 The legal voters of said county shall meet at the several precincts now organized for holding elections within the above boundaries on the first monday in July next, appoint Judges and clerks of elections, and proceed to elect three county commissioners, a Sheriff, a Coroner, a county surveyor and county Recorder for said county; and the returns of said election shall be made by said Judges and clerks to the Justices of the Peace in said new county of Van Buren, any three or more of whom shall meet at the village of Petersburg within seven days after said election and proceed to open said returns and in all things perform the duties required by law of the clerks of county commissioners courts and Justices of the Peace in like cases SEC. 9 In all elections for officers, except county officers, the county shall vote with the county of Sangamon until the next census; and the returns of the elections shall be made to the county clerk of the new county of Van Buren, by whom a certified abstract of the returns of such election shall be made to the county commissioners clerk of Sangamon county within seven days thereafter. SEC 10 Be it further enacted that the legal voters of the county of Sangamon shall meet at the several places of holding elections in said county, on the first monday of June next, and if a majority of said voters shall vote in favour of the organization of said new county of Van Buren under this act, then shall the county be organized as is in this act provided for; but if a majority of said voters shall vote against the organization of said new county, then shall this act be void and of none effect. SEC 11 It shall be the duty of the Judges and clerks of the several election precincts in and for the county of Sangamon, to meet at the several places of holding elections, on the day prescribed in the tenth section of this act, and then and there proceed to open polls for the purpose contemplated in the said tenth section, and in all respects conduct the voting, and make the returns in the manner prescribed by the general election laws of this state. The official certificate of the clerk of the county commissioner's court of Sangamon county shall be evidence of the result of said voting.  SEC 12 The clerk of the county commissioner's court for Sangamon county shall give notice of said voting in the same manner, and for the same length of time that he is required to do by law, of general elections.

To John McNamar
DEAR MACK: Vandalia, Dec. 24, 1836.
I write this to notify you that I have received the petition for the change of the state road, so as to make it run by Tilman Hornsecker's  and Bowman's,  and that unless you, who are opposed to the change, get up a remonstrance and send it on, I shall be forced to have a bill passed upon the petition. I might write you a long letter of political news but you will see that as soon in the newspapers, which will save me the trouble. If you feel any particular interest in this affair don't fail to bestir yourself.  Your friend, A. LINCOLN.

Bond of Charles Gregory as Treasurer of Illinois
December 30, 1836
Know all Men by These presents that We Charles Gregory Wm. Lane LeviDavis A. Lincoln John Allen R. B. Servant Franklin Wiitt E. B. Webb Wm. H. Davidson Wm. J. Gatewood Wm. Thomas John Hogan are held and firmly bound unto Joseph Duncan Governor of the State of Illinois and his successors in office in the sum of Fifty Thousand Dollars lawful money of the State of Illinois for the true payment whereof, we bind ourselves, our heirs, Executors and administrators jointly and severally, firmly by these presents sealed with our seals and dated this 30th Day of December Eighteen hundred and thirty six. The condition of this obligation is such that whereas the above bounden Charles Gregory has been appointed State Treasurer of the State of Illinois, for the Term of the present Session of the General Assembly, to commence on the 30th day of Dec: 1836. Now if the said Charles Gregory, shall well and truly and faithfully discharge and perform the duties of his said office for and during his said Term and shall give additional security whenever such security shall at any time hereafter be required, then this obligation shall be void, otherwise it shall be and remain in full force. Charles Gregory (SEAL) 	Franklin Witt (SEAL) Wm. Lane (SEAL) 	E. B. Webb (SEAL) Signed and delivered in presence of 	Levi Davis (SEAL)  	W. H. Davidson (SEAL) A. Lincoln (SEAL) 	Wm. Gatewood (SEAL) John Allen (SEAL) 	Wm. Thomas (SEAL) R. B. Servant (SEAL) 	John Hogan (SEAL)

Speech in the Illinois Legislature Concerning the State Bank
January 11, 1837
In the House of Representatives, upon the resolution offered by Mr. Linder, to institute an enquiry into the management of the affairs of the State Bank. MR. CHAIRMAN: Lest I should fall into the too common error, of being mistaken in regard to which side I design to be upon, I shall make it my first care to remove all doubt on that point, by declaring that I am opposed to the resolution under consideration, in toto. Before I proceed to the body of the subject, I will further remark, that it is not without a considerable degree of apprehension, that I venture to cross the track of the gentleman from Coles (Mr. Linder).  Indeed, I do not believe I could muster a sufficiency of courage to come in contact with that gentleman, were it not for the fact, that he, some days since, most graciously condescended to assure us that he would never be found wasting ammunition on small game . On the same fortunate occasion, he further gave us to understand, that he regarded himself as being decidedly the superior of our common friend from Randolph (Mr. Shields);  and feeling, as I really do, that I, to say the most of myself, am nothing more than the peer of our friend from Randolph, I shall regard the gentleman from Coles as decidedly my superior also, and consequently, in the course of what I shall have to say, whenever I shall have occasion to allude to that gentleman, I shall endeavor to adopt that kind of court language which I understand to be due to decided superiority . In one faculty, at least, there can be no dispute of the gentleman's superiority over me, and most other men; and that is, the faculty of entangling a subject, so that neither himself, or any other man, can find head or tail to it. Here he has introduced a resolution, embracing ninety-nine printed lines across common writing paper, and yet more than one half of his opening speech has been made upon subjects about which there is not one word said in his resolution. Though his resolution embraces nothing in regard to the constitutionality of the Bank, much of what he has said has been with a view to make the impression that it was unconstitutional in its inception. Now, although I am satisfied that an ample field may be found within the pale of the resolution, at least for small game, yet as the gentleman has travelled out of it, I feel that I may, with all due humility, venture to follow him. The gentleman has discovered that some gentleman at Washington city has been upon the very eve of deciding our Bank unconstitutional, and that he would probably have completed his very authentic decision, had not some one of the Bank officers placed his hand upon his mouth, and begged him to withhold it. The fact that the individuals composing our Supreme Court have, in an official capacity, decided in favor of the constitutionality of the Bank, would, in my mind, seem a sufficient answer to this. It is a fact known to all, that the members of the Supreme Court, together with the Governor, form a Council of Revision, and that this Council approved this Bank Charter. I ask, then, if the extra-judicial decision---not quite, but only almost made, by the gentleman at Washington, before whom, by the way, the question of the constitutionality of our Bank never has, nor never can come---is to be taken as paramount to a decision officially made by that tribunal, by which and which alone, the constitutionality of the Bank can ever be settled? But aside from this view of the subject, I would ask, if the committee which this resolution proposes to appoint, are to examine into the constitutionality of the Bank? Are they to be clothed with power to send for persons and papers, for this object? And after they have found the Bank to be unconstitutional, and decided it so, how are they to enforce their decision? What will their decision amount to? They cannot compel the Bank to cease operations, or to change the course of its operations. What good, then, can their labors result in? Certainly none. The gentleman asks, if we, without an examination, shall, by giving the State deposites to the bank, and by taking the stock reserved for the State, legalize its former misconduct? Now I do not pretend to possess sufficient legal knowledge to decide, whether a legislative enactment, proposing to, and accepting from, the Bank, certain terms, would have the effect to legalize or wipe out its former errors, or not; but I can assure the gentleman, if such should be the effect, he has already got behind the settlement of accounts; for it is well known to all, that the Legislature, at its last session, passed a supplemental Bank charter, which the Bank has since accepted, and which, according to his doctrine, has legalized all the alleged violations of its original charter in the distribution of its stock. I now proceed to the resolution. By examination it will be found that the first thirty-three lines, being precisely one third of the whole, relate exclusively to the distribution of the stock by the commissioners appointed by the State. Now, sir, it is clear that no question can arise on this portion of the resolution, except a question between capitalists in regard to the ownership of stock. Some gentlemen have the stock in their hands, while others, who have more money than they know what to do with, want it; and this, and this alone, is the question, to settle which we are called on to squander thousands of the people's money. What interest, let me ask, have the people in the settlement of this question? What difference is it to them whether the stock is owned by Judge Smith,  or Sam. Wiggins?  If any gentleman be entitled to stock in the Bank, which he is kept out of possession of by others, let him assert his right in the Supreme Court, and let him or his antagonist, whichever may be found in the wrong, pay the costs of suit. It is an old maxim and a very sound one, that he that dances should always pay the fiddler. Now, sir, in the present case, if any gentlemen, whose money is a burden to them, choose to lead off a dance, I am decidedly opposed to the people's money being used to pay the fiddler. No one can doubt that the examination proposed by this resolution, must cost the State some ten or twelve thousand dollars; and all this to settle a question in which the people have no interest, and about which they care nothing. These capitalists generally act harmoniously, and in concert, to fleece the people, and now, that they have got into a quarrel with themselves, we are called upon to appropriate the people's money to settle the quarrel. I leave this part of the resolution, and proceed to the remainder. It will be found that no charge in the remaining part of the resolution, if true, amounts to the violation of the Bank Charter, except one, which I will notice in due time. It might seem quite sufficient, to say no more upon any of these charges or insinuations, than enough to show they are not violations of the charter; yet, as that [they?] are ingeniously framed and handled, with a view to deceive and mislead, I will notice in their order, all the most prominent of them. The first of these, is in relation to a connexion between our Bank and several Banking institutions in other States. Admitting this connection to exist, I should like to see the gentleman from Coles, or any other gentleman, undertake to show that there is any harm in it. What can there be in such a connexion, that the people of Illinois are willing to pay their money to get a peep into? By a reference to the tenth section of the Bank charter, any gentleman can see that the framers of the act contemplated the holding of stock in the institutions of other corporations. Why, then, is it, when neither law nor justice forbids it, that we are asked to spend our time and money, in inquiring into its truth? The next charge, in the order of time, is, that some officer, director, clerk or servant of the Bank, has been required to take an oath of secrecy in relation to the affairs of said Bank. Now, I do not know whether this be true or false---neither do I believe any honest man cares. I know that the seventh section of the charter expressly guarantees to the Bank the right of making, under certain restrictions, such by-laws as it may think fit; and I further know that the requiring an oath of secrecy, would not transcend those restrictions. What, then, if the Bank has chosen to exercise this right? Who can it injure? Does not every merchant have his secret mark? and who is ever silly enough to complain of it? I presume if the Bank does require any such oath of secrecy, it is done through a motive of delicacy to those individuals who deal with it. Why, sir, not many days since, one gentleman upon this floor, who, by the way I have no doubt is now ready to join this hue and cry against the Bank, indulged in a philippic against one of the Bank officers, because, as he said, he had divulged a secret . Immediately following this last charge, there are several insinuations in the resolution, which are too silly to require any sort of notice, were it not for the fact, that they conclude by saying, `` to the great injury of the people at large .'' In answer to this I would say, that it is strange enough, that the people are suffering these ``great injuries,'' and yet are not sensible of it! Singular indeed that the people should be writhing under oppression and injury, and yet not one among them to be found, to raise the voice of complaint. If the Bank be inflicting injury upon the people, why is it, that not a single petition is presented to this body on the subject? If the Bank really be a grievance, why is it, that no one of the real people is found to ask redress of it? The truth is, no such oppression exists. If it did, our table would groan with memorials and petitions, and we would not be permitted to rest day or night, till we had put it down. The people know their rights; and they are never slow to assert and maintain them, when they are invaded. Let them call for an investigation, and I shall ever stand ready to respond to the call. But they have made no such call. I make the assertion boldly, and without fear of contradiction, that no man, who does not hold an office, or does not aspire to one, has ever found any fault of the Bank. It has doubled the prices of the products of their farms, and filled their pockets with a sound circulating medium, and they are all well pleased with its operations. No, Sir, it is the politician who is the first to sound the alarm, (which, by the way, is a false one.) It is he, [who,] by these unholy means, is endeavoring to blow up a storm that he may ride upon and direct. It is he, and he alone, that here proposes to spend thousands of the people's public treasure, for no other advantage to them, than to make valueless in their pockets the reward of their industry. Mr. Chairman, this movement is exclusively the work of politicians; a set of men who have interests aside from the interests of the people, and who, to say the most of them, are, taken as a mass, at least one long step removed from honest men. I say this with the greater freedom because, being a politician myself, none can regard it as personal. Again, it is charged, or rather insinuated, that officers of the Bank have loaned money at usurious rates of interest. Suppose this to be true, are we to send a committee of this House to enquire into it? Suppose the committee should find it true can they redress the injured individuals? Assuredly not. If any individual had been injured in this way, is there not an ample remedy, to be found in the laws of the land? Does the gentleman from Coles know, that there is a statute standing in full force, making it highly penal, for an individual to loan money at a higher rate of interest than twelve per cent? If he does not he is too ignorant to be placed at the head of the committee which his resolution proposes; and if he does, his neglect to mention it, shows him to be too uncandid to merit the respect or confidence of any one. But besides all this, if the Bank were struck from existence, could not the owners of the capital still loan it usuriously, as well as now? Whatever the Bank, or its officers, may have done, I know that usurious transactions were much more frequent and enormous, before the commencement of its operations, than they have ever been since. The next insinuation is, that the Bank has refused specie payments. This, if true, is a violation of the charter. But there is not the least probability of its truth; because, if such had been the fact, the individual to whom payment was refused, would have had an interest in making it public, by suing for the damages to which the charter entitles him. Yet no such thing has been done; and the strong presumption is, that the insinuation is false and groundless. From this to the end of the resolution, there is nothing that merits attention---I therefore drop the particular examination of it. By a general view of the resolution, it will be seen that a principal object of the committee is, to examine into, and ferret out, a mass of corruption, supposed to have been committed by the commissioners who apportioned the stock of the Bank. I believe it is universally understood and acknowledged, that all men will ever act correctly, unless they have a motive to do otherwise. If this be true, we can only suppose that the commissioners acted corruptly, by also supposing that they were bribed to do so. Taking this view of the subject, I would ask if the Bank is likely to find it more difficult to bribe the committee of seven, which we are about to appoint, than it may have found it to bribe the commissioners? (Here Mr. Linder called to order. The Chair decided that Mr. Lincoln was not out of order. Mr. Linder appealed to the House; but before the question was put, withdrew his appeal, saying, he preferred to let the gentleman go on; he thought he would break his own neck. Mr. Lincoln proceeded)--- Another gracious condescension . I acknowledge it with gratitude. I know I was not out of order; and I know every sensible man in the House knows it. I was not saying that the gentleman from Coles could not be bribed, nor, on the other hand, will I say he could.  In that particular, I leave him where I found him. I was only endeavoring to show that there was at least as great a probability of any seven members that could be selected from this House, being bribed to act corruptly, as there was, that the twenty-four commissioners had been so bribed. By a reference to the ninth section of the Bank charter, it will be seen that those commissioners were John Tilson, Robert K. McLaughlin, Daniel Wann, A. G. S. Wight, John C. Riley, W. H. Davidson, Edward M. Wilson, Edward L. Pierson, Robert R. Green, Ezra Baker, Aquilla Wren, John Taylor, Samuel C. Christy, Edmund Roberts, Benjamin Godfrey, Thomas Mather, A. M. Jenkins, W. Linn, W. S. Gilman, Charles Prentice, Richard J. Hamilton, A. H. Buckner, W. F. Thornton, and Edmund D. Taylor. These are twenty-four of the most respectable men in the State. Probably no twenty-four men could be selected in the State, with whom the people are better acquainted, or in whose honor and integrity, they would more readily place confidence. And I now repeat, that there is less probability that those men have been bribed and corrupted, than that any seven men, or rather any six men, that could be selected from the members of this House, might be so bribed and corrupted; even though they were headed and led on by ``decided superiority'' himself. In all seriousness, I ask every reasonable man, if an issue be joined by these twenty-four commissioners, on the one part, and any other seven men, on the other part, and the whole depend upon the honor and integrity of the contending parties, to which party would the greatest degree of credit be due? Again: Another consideration is, that we have no right to make the examination. What I shall say upon this head, I design exclusively for the law-loving and law-abiding part of the House. To those who claim omnipotence for the Legislature, and who in the plenitude of their assumed powers, are disposed to disregard the Constitution, law, good faith, moral right, and every thing else, I have not a word to say. But to the law-abiding part I say, examine the Bank charter, go examine the Constitution; go examine the acts that the General Assembly of this State has passed, and you will find just as much authority given in each and every of them, to compel the Bank to bring its coffers to this hall, and to pour their contents upon this floor, as to compel it to submit to this examination which this resolution proposes. Why, sir, the gentleman from Coles, the mover of this resolution, very lately denied on this floor, that the Legislature had any right to repeal, or otherwise meddle with its own acts, when those acts were made in the nature of contracts, and had been accepted and acted on by other parties. Now I ask, if this resolution does not propose, for this House alone, to do, what he, but the other day, denied the right [of] the whole Legislature to do? He must either abandon the position he then took, or he must now vote against his own resolution. It is no difference to me, and I presume but little to any one else, which he does. I am by no means the special advocate of the Bank. I have long thought that it would be well for it to report its condition to the General Assembly, and that cases might occur, when it might be proper to make an examination of its affairs by a committee. Accordingly, during the last session, while a bill supplemental to the Bank charter, was pending before the House, I offered an amendment to the same, in these words: ``The said corporation shall, at the next session of the General Assembly, and at each subsequent General Session, during the existence of its charter, report to the same the amount of debts due from said corporation; the amount of debts due to the same; the amount of specie in its vaults, and an account of all lands then owned by the same, and the amount for which such lands have been taken; and moreover, if said corporation shall at any time neglect or refuse to submit its books, papers, and all and every thing necessary for a full and fair examination of its affairs, to any person or persons appointed by the General Assembly, for the purpose of making such examination, the said corporation shall forfeit its charter.'' This amendment was negatived by a vote of 34 to 15. Eleven of the 34 who voted against it, are now members of this House; and though it would be out of order to call their names, I hope they will all recollect themselves, and not vote for this examination to be made without authority, inasmuch as they refused to reserve the authority when it was in their power to do so. I have said that cases might occur, when an examination might be proper; but I do not believe any such case has now occurred; and if it has, I should still be opposed to making an examination without legal authority. I am opposed to encouraging that lawless and mobocratic spirit, whether in relation to the bank or any thing else, which is already abroad in the land; and is spreading with rapid and fearful impetuosity, to the ultimate overthrow of every institution, or even moral principle, in which persons and property have hitherto found security. But supposing we had the authority, I would ask what good can result from the examination? Can we declare the Bank unconstitutional, and compel it to cease operations? Can we compel it to desist from the abuses of its power, provided we find such abuses to exist? Can we repair the injuries which it may have done to individuals? Most certainly we can do none of these things. Why then shall we spend the public money in such employment? O, say the examiners, we can injure the credit of the Bank, if nothing else. Please tell me, gentlemen, who will suffer most by that? You cannot injure, to any extent, the Stockholders. They are men of wealth---of large capital; and consequently, beyond the power of fortune, or even the shafts of malice. But by injuring the credit of the Bank, you will depreciate the value of its paper in the hands of the honest and unsuspecting farmer and mechanic, and that is all you can do. But suppose you could effect your whole purpose; suppose you could wipe the Bank from existence, which is the grand ultimatum of the project, what would be the consequence? Why, sir, we should spend several thousand dollars of the public treasure in the operation, annihilate the currency of the State; render valueless in the hands of our people that reward of their former labors; and finally, be once more under the comfortable obligation of paying the Wiggins' loan, principal and interest. 

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Establish a State Road from Peoria to Hendersonville
[January 21, 1837]
An act to establish a State road from Peoria to Hendersonville. SEC. 1 Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That Stephen French of Peoria county, and Henry McClenahan and Wilson Brown of Knox county, be, and they are hereby appointed commissioners, to view, mark and locate a state road from Peoria in Peoria county by way of Prince's mill to Hendersonville in Knox county. SEC 2 Said commissioners shall meet at Hendersonville on the first monday in April next, or within six months thereafter, and, after being duly sworn by some Justice of the Peace, faithfully to perform the duties required of them by this act, shall proceed to locate said road, on the nearest and best route, avoiding, as much as the public convenience will permit, the injury of private property; and shall mark the same, by blazing the timber on the timbered land, and fixing stakes on the Pra[i]rie land. SEC 3 Said commissioners shall make a map and report of so much of said road as lies in Peoria county, and file the same with the clerk of the county commissioner's court of said county; and a like map and report of so much as lies in Knox county and file the same with the clerk of the county commissioners court [of] said county. The county commissioners courts of Peoria and Knox counties shall allow said commissioners such compensation as they, respectively, shall deem just and reasonable SEC 4 Said road shall be worked, and kept in repair, as other state roads are.

Amendments to Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Establish a State Road from Jacksonville to Syracuse and Bloomington
[January 30, 1837]
Amend the third line of the first section, by striking out the name of William Montgomery and inserting that of John Armstrong. Amend the seventh line of the same section, by inserting the words ``by way of Greensburg'' immediately after the word ``thence'' Amend the fourth line of the second section, by striking out the word ``Bloomington'' and inserting ``intersect the state road leading from Springfield to Bloomington, at or near the farm of Lemuel Foster''

Amendment to an Amendment Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto an Act Distributing the School Funds to the Counties
[February 7, 1837]
Provided that all counties which shall have been formed since the last taking of the census; shall for all school purposes, remain as though no division had been made, until the next taking of the census.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Relocate Part of a State Road from Springfield to Lewiston
[February 10, 1837]
An act to relocate a part of the State Road leading from Springfield to Lewiston. Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That Samuel Berry, James Pantier, and John Jones sen. be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view, mark, and relocate so much of the State Road leading from Springfield to Lewiston as lies between the Southern boundary line of Township 19 North of Range 7 West, and the residence of the said John Jones sen. The said commissioners shall meet at the house of Samuel Berry on the first monday of May next, or some convenient day thereafter, and after being duly sworn, shall proceed to make said relocation, and shall make return thereof to the county commissioners court for Sangamon county at their next term. The said county commissioners court, shall allow said commissioners such compensation as they may deem reasonable.

Report to Illinois Legislatureon Petitions and Remonstrances Concerning Establishment of New Counties
[February 13, 1837]
The select committee to whom was refered the petition of sundry citizens of Sangamon county, praying the establishment of three new counties, principally from the teritory of the said county of Sangamon; and to whom was also refered the remonstrance of sundry citizens of the same county, against any division or dismemberment of the same, have had the same under consideration and report: That 1437 names are found on the petition, and 2213 on the remonstrance.  Upon this fact, the committee unanamously agree that the prayer of the petitioners ought not to be granted, and, therefore, ask to be discharged from the further consideration of the subject. The same committee, to whom were also refered the petitions of sundry citizens of Montgomery & Shelby counties, praying the establishment of new counties, find that a majority of neither country [ sic ] has signed the said petitions, and they, therefore, ask to be discharged from the further consideration of the subject.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Supplement ``An Act to Erect Certain Bridges, Approved January 22, 1831''
[February 13, 1837]
An Act Supplemental to an Act Entitled ``An Act to Erect Certain Bridges'' Approved Jan. 22, 1831 Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly : That the county of Knox shall be entitled to all the benefits of the act to which this is supplemental; Provided the county commissioner's court of said county, shall comply with the requisites of said act, within two years from the passage of this act.

Amendments Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Senate Bill Permanently Locating the Seat of Government of the State of Illinois
[February 14, 1837]
Strike out the word ``twentieth'' where it occurs, and insert ``twenty third'' Fill the first blank with the word ``fifty'' Fill the second blank with the word ``three'' Add the following proviso to the 4th. section. Provided that this act shall be null and void, unless the sum of fifty thousand dollars be donated by individuals, and secured by bonds and security to be approved of by the Governor, and made payable to, the State Treasurer, to become due at such time as the Governor shall direct, which bonds shall be executed and filed with the State Treasurer on or before the first day of May next; and which donation is especially designed to meet the appropriation herein before made, and shall be applied exclusively and immediately to that object; and also, unless a sufficient quantity of ground, not less than two acres, upon which to erect public buildings, be donated and conveyed to the State without expense to the State.

Report to Illinois Legislatureon Amount of Annual Revenue and Current Expenses
[February 16, 1837]
The committee on Finance, who were required by a resolution to ascertain the amount of money annually receivable into the State Treasury by opperation of the existing revenue laws; and also, the amount necessary to meet the current expenses of the government, report: That the amount receivable from all sources is 	$57,895.15 And the amount required 	55,151.97 ------ The different items, forming the above amount of money are as follows (viz) From non resident land tax 	$44,395.15 From State Bank 	12.000 From Shawaneetown [ sic ] Bank 	1500 ------ Total as above 	57,895.15 As to the amount necessary to meet the current expenditures of the government, the committee on Finance, have relied on a report made by the committee on Public Accounts and Expenditures, which, as above, is. 	$55.151.97 The committee on Finance, on looking over the report of the committee on Public Accounts and Expenditures, discover that, in their judgement, much too small a sum is allowed for a Contingent fund; they, therefore, think it prudent to add 	15.000 ------ Total 	70.151 97 From which take the revenue 	57.895 15 ------ Leaving a deficit of. 	12 256 82

Protest in Illinois Legislature on Slavery
March 3, 1837
The following protest was presented to the House, which was read and ordered to be spread on the journals, to wit: ``Resolutions upon the subject of domestic slavery having passed both branches of the General Assembly at its present session, the undersigned hereby protest against the passage of the same.  They believe that the institution of slavery is founded on both injustice and bad policy; but that the promulgation of abolition doctrines tends rather to increase than to abate its evils. They believe that the Congress of the United States has no power, under the constitution, to interfere with the institution of slavery in the different States. They believe that the Congress of the United States has the power, under the constitution, to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia; but that that power ought not to be exercised unless at the request of the people of said District. The difference between these opinions and those contained in the said resolutions, is their reason for entering this protest.'' DAN STONE,  A. LINCOLN, Representatives from the county of Sangamon .

Bond for Charles Oakley as Fund Commissioner
March 4, 1837
Know all men by these presents that we Charles Oakley M. McConnel, Wm. Lane, Benjn. Mitchell, Richd. Bently [ sic ], A. Lincoln, R. L Wilson Jos. Naper, M. Aldrich, Robert Stuart, Asahel Ball, R. N. Cullum [ sic ], Jonas Rawalt, Jas. Craig Danl. Stone are held and firmly bound unto Joseph Duncan Governor of the State of Illinois, and his successors in office, for the use of said state in the penal sum of Fifty thousand dollars lawful money of the United States of America for which payment well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and Administrators Jointly and severally, firmly by these presents, sealed with our seals and dated the Fourth day of March A. D. 1837. The condition of the above obligation is such, that Whereas, the said Charles Oakley has been elected to the office of Fund Commissioner, under the provisions of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled ``An Act to establish and maintain a General system of Internal improvement,'' approved the 27th. day of February A. D. 1837. Now if the said Charles Oakley, shall well, truly and faithfully discharge the duties of said office of Fund Commissioner as aforsaid [ sic ] according to the provisions of said act, and shall faithfully, account for all moneys that shall or may come into his hands as such Fund Commissioner and shall faithfully perform such other duties as shall from time to time be imposed upon him by Laws, as such Commissioner, then this obligation to be void otherwise to remain in full force and virtue. Signed, Sealed and delivered in presence of 

Bond for Benjamin S. Enloe as Warden of State Penitentiary
[March 13] 1837
Know all men by these Presents that we Ben S. Enloe, A. Lincoln, Andrew McCormick,  R. L. Wilson Dan Stone James Duncan Jas A Whiteside John Dement, Joseph E Watkins Peter Warren are held and firmly bound, unto Joseph Duncan, Governor of the State of Illinois, and his successors in office for the use of the people of said State in the penal sum of Ten Thousand dollars, for the payment of which, well and truly to be made, we bind, ourselves, our heirs, Executors and administrators jointly---and severally firmly by these presents, seale[d] with our seals, and dated this day of 1837. The condition of the above obligation is such that whereas the said Benjamin S. Enloe has been elected by the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, Warden of the Penitentiary of said State, Now if the said Benjamin S. Enloe, shall well and faithfully discharge the duties of said office, according to Law, and deliver over to his successor in office, all Books, records, vouchers, papers, presses [?] and furniture appertaining to said office, whole safe and undefaced, then this obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue. In presence of{ Ben. S. Enloe (Seal) 	Dan Stone   (Seal) A. Lincoln (Seal) 	Jos E Watkins (Seal) Andrew McCormick (Seal) 	James Duncan (Seal) R. L. Wilson (Seal) 	James A Whiteside (Seal) Scanon Lane [?] (Seal) 	John Dement (Seal) Peter Warren (Seal)

To Levi Davis
Friend Davis. Springfield, April 19- 1837
The bearer of this, Dr. Henry,  visits you for the purpose of drawing a small amount of money to enable the Commissioners to commence the erection of a State House. He, as you probably recollect, is one of the building commissioners. The bond for the $50,000 required by the act locating the Seat of Government,  has been executed by several of our citizens and duly approved by the Governor;  and will be filed with the Treasurer, by Dr. Henry on his arrival at your town. The Dr., being a stranger to you and the Treasurer, and his duties being of a new kind, he has asked me to request you, as a friend, to render him what assistance you conveniently can. We have, generally in this country, peace, health, and plenty, and no news. Verry respectfully: A. LINCOLN.

To Mary S. Owens
Friend Mary Springfield, May 7. 1837
I have commenced two letters to send you before this, both of which displeased me before I got half done, and so I tore them up. The first I thought wasn't serious enough, and the second was on the other extreme. I shall send this, turn out as it may. This thing of living in Springfield is rather a dull business after all, at least it is so to me. I am quite as lonesome here as [I] ever was anywhere in my life. I have been spoken to by but one woman since I've been here, and should not have been by her, if she could have avoided it. I've never been to church yet, nor probably shall not be soon. I stay away because I am conscious I should not know how to behave myself. I am often thinking about what we said of your coming to live at Springfield. I am afraid you would not be satisfied. There is a great deal of flourishing about in carriages here, which it would be your doom to see without shareing in it. You would have to be poor without the means of hiding your poverty. Do you believe you could bear that patiently? Whatever woman may cast her lot with mine, should any ever do so, it is my intention to do all in my power to make her happy and contented; and there is nothing I can immagine, that would make me more unhappy than to fail in the effort. I know I should be much happier with you than the way I am, provided I saw no signs of discontent in you. What you have said to me may have been in jest, or I may have misunderstood it. If so, then let it be forgotten; if otherwise, I much wish you would think seriously before you decide. For my part I have already decided. What I have said I will most positively abide by, provided you wish it. My opinion is that you had better not do it. You have not been accustomed to hardship, and it may be more severe than you now immagine. I know you are capable of thinking correctly on any subject; and if you deliberate maturely upon this, before you decide, then I am willing to abide your decision. You must write me a good long letter after you get this. You have nothing else to do, and though it might not seem interesting to you, after you had written it, it would be a good deal of company to me in this ``busy wilderness.'' Tell your sister I dont want to hear any more about selling out and moving. That gives me the hypo  whenever I think of it. Yours, &c. LINCOLN.

Report Drawn for Road Commissioners
May 23, 1837
We, the undersigned, being appointed by the county commissioner's court of Sangamon county, to view a road from the Public Square in Springfield to Nathan Hussey's on the Fort Clark road, report that we have viewed, marked, and located the road as follows (towit) Begining at the Public Square aforesaid, and running from thence with the Peoria road as now traveled, to a point in the middle of said road, from which one of the bearing trees of the South West corner of Section one in Township 16 North of Range 5 West, being a Black Oak 12 inches in diameter, bears N 11/4 E8 chains & 12 links, and thence according to the Plat & Field notes returned herewith, to a point on the old road near to the North West corner of the aforesaid Section one. Thence with the old road as now traveled to the said Hussey's. Given under our hands this 23rd of May. 1837 We report said road to be of public utility. GEO PASFIELD WASHINGTON ILES JOHN WILLIAMS

To the Third Auditor of the United States Treasury
Springfield, Illinois, May 30th. 1837-
If the claim, founded upon the enclosed papers, be allowed, the money may be forwarded directly to the claimant, ``Archelaus Demmon, Springfield Illinois'' If it be not allowed, on account of insufficiency of evidence, or for other cause, and the defect, whatever it be, can be remedied, write back, stating particularly what is lacking, and direct to A. Lincoln, place as above. The Paymaster or disbursing officer, of whom this applicant received pay was, according to recollection, Major Wright of the United States Army. In this there may be a mistake, as there is nothing but memory to refer to. At any rate it was the officer that paid Whiteside's Brigade. Respectfully A. LINCOLN for the Applicant. Third Auditor 

Resolution Adopted at a Public Meeting Called by Anson G. Henry
June 24, 1837
Whereas we have seen several publications in the ``Illinois Republican,'' stating that Dr. A. G. Henry, one of the Commissioners appointed by the Legislature to superintend the building of the State House, is squandering disadvantageously and uselessly the public money appropriated by the citizens of this place for that object; and, whereas, if the charge be true, it is highly important to the interest of the State, that the trust now held by Dr. Henry should be immediately placed in other hands: therefore Resolved, That a Committee of seven be appointed to examine the books and proceedings of the Commissioners appointed to superintend the building of the State House, and that said Committee make a full and complete Report of said proceedings, together with such remarks upon the facts disclosed as their acquaintance with such business may enable them to make, that may go to show whether the Commissioners are, or are not, progressing with the work in the most economical and judicious manner; and that said Report be published in the newspapers of this place.

Notice to Illinois Legislatureof a Bill to Authorize Rhoda Hart and Others to Sell Certain Real Estate
Mr Speaker [July 12, 1837]
I hereby give notice that on friday next or some day thereafter I shall ask leave to introduce a bill for an act to authorize Rhoda Hart and others to sell and convey certain real estate.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Extend Corporate Powers of the President and Trustees of the Town of Springfield
[July 12, 1837]
SECTION 1 Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That the President and trustees of the town of Springfield, in the county of Sangamon and state aforesaid, and their successors in office, or a majority of them, shall hereafter have authority in addition to the powers confered upon them by an act entitled ``An act to incorporate the inhabitants of such towns as may wish to be incorporated,'' Approved February 12th. 1831, to extend the boundaries of said town one half mile in each direction beyond it's present limits, & to open, widen, and extend the streets and alleys of the same; and to levy and collect annually a tax on all the real estate in said town as extended, not exceeding four percent per annum on the assessed value thereof, and to borrow money, provided that at no time shall the amount so borrowed exceed one hundred thousand dollars. SEC. 2 All moneys arising from the collection of taxes, or from the loan or loans above authorized shall be appropriated by the said President and Trustees and their successors in such manner as in their opinion will best promote the interests of the said town SEC 3. The said President and Trustees shall have power to enforce their ordinances by authorizing the collection of taxes to sell any town lot or parcel of ground within the limit of said town or so much as will pay the tax due and in arrear from the owner thereof in such manner as is now authorized under the act approved Feb. 12. 1831 aforesaid. SEC. 4 That when any street is opened, widened, or extended, the President and Trustees shall make the person or persons injured thereby, compensation; to ascertain which they shall cause to be summoned twelve good and lawful men, freeholders and inhabitants of said town, not directly interested, who being first duly sworn for that purpose, shall enquire in to and take into consideration, as well the benefit as the injury which may accrue, and estimate and assess the damage sustained by reason thereof, and shall moreover estimate the amount which other persons will be benefited thereby, all of which shall be returned to the board under their hands and seals, and the persons so benefited and assessed shall pay the same in such manner as shall be provided, and the residue if any shall be paid into the town Treasury. SEC. 5. That upon the application of the owners of two thirds of the lots on any street or part of a street, it shall be lawful for the President and Trustees to levy and collect a special tax on the owners of the lots on said street or parts of a street according to their respective fronts, for the purpose of grading and paving the streets and side-walks in front thereof SEC 6 This act to take effect from and after it's passage.

Notice to Illinois Legislatureof a Bill in Relation to State and County Roads
Mr. Speaker. [July 13, 1837]
I give notice that on monday next I shall ask leave to introduce a bill for an act in relation to State & County roads.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Establish a State Road from Beardstown to Petersburg
[July 13, 1837]
A bill for an act to establish a state road from Beardstown in Cass county to Petersburg in Sangamon county. SECTION 1st. Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That Henry McHenry, Solomon Penny and Myram Penny  be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view, mark, and locate a state road from Beardstown in Cass county, thence as near as the ground will permit, by way of the town of Richmond, and Robinsons Mill to Petersburg in Sangamon county. SEC 2. Said commissioners, or a majority of them shall meet at Beardstown on the first monday in September next, or on any other day which they may agree upon, within six months from the passage of this act, and after being duly sworn by some Justice of the Peace, faithfully to perform the duties herein required, shall proceed to view, mark, and locate said road as above described, avoiding as much as the public interest will permit, the injury of private property. SEC. 3. Said commissioners shall make out a complete map and report of the location of so much of said road as lies in the county Cass, and file the same with the clerk of the county commissioners court of the said county of Cass; and a like map and report of so much as lies in the county of Sangamon and file the same with the clerk of the county commissioners court of said county of Sangamon. SEC. 4. Said road shall be and remain a state road, and shall be opened and kept in repair as other state roads are. SEC. 5. The county commissioners courts of the said counties of Cass and Sangamon shall allow said commissioners such compensation as they may deem reasonable

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Authorize Rhoda Hart and Others to Sell Certain Real Estate
[July 15, 1837]
A bill for an act to authorize Rhoda Hart and others to sell and convey certain real estate. SEC. 1 Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the the [ sic ] General Assembly: That Rhoda Hart, widdow, and Harvey B. Hart, Moses P. Hart, Nancy Hart, John F. Wilson, Martha Wilson, and Rhoda Hart, adult heirs of Moses Hart deceased, all of the county of Sangamon and state of Illinois, be and they are hereby authorized to sell and jointly convey, by a deed or deeds in feesimple, all the real estate of which the said Moses Hart deceased died seized, the same being the South West quarter of Section Twentyfour, the East half of the North West quarter of Section Twentyfour, and fifty acres of the South end or part of the East half of the South West quarter of [Sec]tion Thirteen all in Township Seventeen North of Range Seven West of the Third Principal Meridian, and lying in the said county of Sangamon. SEC 2. The said conveyance shall be with this condition; that if the minor heirs of the said Moses Hart deceased shall not execute a release of all their right and title to said real estate, in favour of the purchaser or purchasers, his, her, or their heirs or assigns, within one year after the youngest of them shall arrive at the age of twentyone years, all the above named persons, selling and conveying said real estate as aforesaid, shall be jointly and severally bound to pay to the said purchaser or purchasers, his, her, or their heirs or assigns, double the sum for which the part of the said minor heirs may have been sold, to be recovered in an action of debt against them or either of them; and this act shall be sufficient evidence of said condition, without the same being set forth in the deed of conveyance or any other writing. SECTION 3 The duly appointed guardian of the minor heirs of William Everly deceased, late of the county of Edwards and state of Illinois, be authorized to sell and convey the following described tracts of land, towit, the West half of the South West quarter of Section three, and the West half of the South East quarter of Section four, both in Township Seventeen North of Range two West of the Third Principal Meridian, and situated in the county of Sangamon and state aforesaid, the same being the property of the said minor heirs, and to apply the proceeds thereof to the maintainance and education of said heirs.

Bill Amended in Illinois LegislatureRelative to the Building of a State House at Springfield
[July 19, 1837]
SEC 1 Be enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That no money shall hereafter be drawn from the Treasury of the state for the purpose of erecting a State House, except such as may hereafter be paid into the said Treasury, by the citizens of Springfield, according to the provisions of a certain bond now on file in the Treasurer's office, executed by said citizens for the payment of fifty thousand dollars, to be applied to the erection of a State House, or otherwise SEC 2. All moneys that have heretofore been drawn from the Treasury by the acting commissioner, for the purpose of erecting a State House at Springfield shall be refunded so soon as the first instalment of the bond above mentioned becomes due.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Relocate a Part of State Road Leading from William Crow's in Morgan County to Musick's Bridge in Sangamon County
[July 19, 1837]
A bill for an act to relocate a part of the state road leading from William Crow's in Morgan county to Musick's bridge in Sangamon county.  SEC 1 Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That Reuben Harrison, Dallis  Scott and Elihu Bone, be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view mark and relocate so much of the state road leading from William Crow's in Morgan county to Musick's bridge in Sangamon county as lies between the head of Richland creek and the Sangamo river. SEC 2. Said commissioners shall meet at the house of Peter Cartwright on the first monday in September next or on any other day agreed on by them within six months from the passage of this act, and after being duly sword, shall proceed to relocate the part of the said road above mentioned, avoiding the injury of private property as much as the public convenience will permit. SEC 3 said commissioners shall make a map and report of said relocation and file the same with the clerk of the county commissioners court of Sangamon county; and shall receive out of the treasury of said county such compensation as the county commissioners may deem reasonable. SEC. 4 The road as now traveled from Springfield to Rochester both in Sangamon county, be and the same is hereby declared a state road and shall be worked and kept in repair as other state roads are. SEC. 5. That Samuel K. Miller, James Fyffe, and James Lanterman be, and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view and locate a state road leading from Lawrenceville to Russelville, in Lawrence county. SEC. 6. The said commissioners shall meet in Lawrenceville, on or before the second Monday in August next, or as soon thereafter as convenient, and after being sworn by some justice of the peace impartially to locate the same, they shall commence at Lawrenceville, thence by James Nabbs' bridge, across the Embarrass river, to the centre school house in Allison prairie, and from thence to Russelville on the most convenient and practicable ground, doing as little injury to private property as possible. SEC. 7. The said commissioners shall, as soon as convenient, cause to be filed with the clerk of the county commissioners' court of Lawrence county, a report and complete map of said road, which report and map shall be preserved and shall form a part of the record of said court. Said road, when so established, shall be kept in repair as other state roads are; and the county commissioners' court of Lawrence county shall allow the said viewers not more than one dollar and fifty cents per day for their services. SEC. 8. The inhabitants of the town of Petersburg, in Sangamon county, may hereafter be incorporated according to the provisions of the general town incorporation act, notwithstanding said town may not contain one hundred and fifty inhabitants. 

Amendment to an ActIntroduced in Illinois Legislature to Locate a State Road
[July 19, 1837]
SEC 4. That Bowling Green, Bennett Abell, and John Bennett, be and they are hereby authorized to meet at any time within six months from the passage of this act, and to relocate so much of the State road leading from Springfield to Lewiston, as lies between the towns of New-Salem and Petersburg, and are required to make a map and report of said relocation and file the same with the clerk of the county commissioner's court of Sangamon county; and for their services shall receive such compensation as the county commissioners of said county shall deem reasonable

Petition to Edward Smith
Vandalia, Illinois July 21st 1837
To Edward Smith Esq---Understanding that you are about to leave the employ of the State We The undersigned members of the General Assembly, having the fullest confidence in your integrity; and ability as an Engineer would most earnestly request that you would continue, in the Employ of the Board of Public Works, of this State, until the Surveys contemplated in the Bill for an Act to Establish & Maintain a General System of Internal Improvements, are fully completed & that you by no means or from no cause retire from the state service.

A Toast Volunteered at a Public Dinner at Springfield, Illinois
July 25, 1837
By A. Lincoln, Esq .---All our friends.---They are too numerous to be now named individually, while there is no one of them who is not too dear to be forgotten or neglected.

Petition for Pardon of Jesse E. Massie
The Governor of the State of Missouri August 1837
The Undersigned Citizens of the County of Sangamon would most respectfully represent, that in the early part of 1836, Massie a citizen of this county, of very respectable connexions and as many of us know, and all of us believe heretofore of good character and conduct, was convicted in the St. Louis Circuit Court of the crime of larceny, uppon three indictments for stealing property of very trivial value, and was sentenced to the Penitentiary for six years where he has ever since been confined. We are unwilling from the circumstances of the transaction to attach deliberate guilt to his conduct. The articles, were (as we are informed) alleged to have been taken from a steamboat on which he was employed---he was no doubt intoxicated. The hands---who were witnesses and himself had quarrelled, and he was taken into custody asleep and in liquor within a few steps of the boat, the property was in his trunk by his side---such we are informed were the circumstances. He was tried as appears from the record within a very few days of his arrest, without the presence of his friends---not without enemies, without means to employ counsel, and destitute of the knowledge to conduct a defence if innocent. We incline to believe, from his friends---his early associations the manner in which he has been brought up, his previous fair character, and from the facts to which we have alluded---that he has been more imprudent than guilty and more unfortunate than criminal. But if guilty he has suffered a long confinement, and we most respectfully suggest that he is [rendered?] by the uncertainty of his guilt and the certainty of his punishment, a fit subject for the exercise of that clemency, which your excellency---is so happy as to be able to apply. We are very Respy Your obt Servants

A Toast Volunteered at a Public Dinner at Athens, Illinois
August 3, 1837
By A. Lincoln. Sangamon county will ever be true to her best interests and never more so than in reciprocating the good feelings of the citizens of Athens and neighborhood.

Handbill: The Case of the Heirs of Joseph AndersonvsJames Adams
August 5, 1837
It is well known to most of you, that there is existing at this time, considerable excitement in regard to Gen. Adams's titles to certain tracts of land, and the manner in which he acquired them. As I understand, the Gen. charges that the whole has been gotten up by a knot of lawyers to injure his election:  and as I am one of the knot to which he refers---and as I happen to be in possession of facts connected with the matter, I will, in as brief a manner as possible, make a statement of them, together with the means by which I arrived at the knowledge of them. Sometime in May or June last,  a widow woman, by the name of Anderson, and her son,  who reside in Fulton county, came to Springfield, for the purpose, as they said, of selling a ten acrelot of ground lying near town,  which they claimed as the property of the deceased husband and father. When they reached town they found the land was claimed by Gen. Adams. John T. Stuart and myself were employed to look into the matter, and if it was thought we could do so with any prospect of success, to commence a suit for the land. I went immediately to the Recorder's office to examine Adams's title, and found that the land had been entered by one Dixon,  deeded by Dixon  to one Thomas, by Thomas  to one Miller, and by Miller  to Gen. Adams. The oldest of these three deeds was about ten or eleven years old, and the latest more than five, all recorded at the same time, and that within less than one year.  This I thought a suspicious circumstance, and I was thereby induced to examine the deeds very closely, with a view to the discovery of some defect by which to overturn the title, being almost convinced then it was founded in fraud. I finally discovered that in the deed from Thomas to Miller, although Miller's name stood in a sort of a marginal note on the record book, it was no where in the deed itself. I told the fact to Talbott,  the Recorder, and proposed to him that he should go to Gen. Adams' and get the original deed, and compare it with the record, and thereby ascertain whether the defect was in the original, or there was merely an error in the recording. As Talbott afterwards told me, he went to the General's, but not finding him at home, got the deed from his son,  which, when compared with the record, proved what we had discovered was merely an error of the Recorder. After Mr. Talbott corrected the record, he brought the original to our office, as I then thought and think yet, to show us that it was right. When he came into the room he handed the deed to me, remarking that the fault was all his own. On opening it, another paper fell out of it, which on examination, proved to be an assignment of a judgement in the Circuit Court of Sangamon County from Joseph Anderson, the late husband of the widow above named, to James Adams, the judgement being in favor of said Anderson against one Joseph Miller.  Knowing that this judgement had some connection with the land affair, I immediately took a copy of it, which is word for word, letter for letter and cross for cross as follows: ``Joseph Anderson vs. Joseph Miller. Judgement in Sangamon Circuit Court in favor of Joseph Anderson against Joseph Miller obtained on a note originally 25 dolls. and interest thereon accrued. ``I assign all my right, title and interest to the said Judgement , to James Adams which is in consideration of a debt I owe the said Adams. May 10th, 1827. his JOSEPH X ANDERSON. mark  As the copy shows, it bore date May 10th, 1827; although the judgement assigned by it was not obtained until the October afterwards, as may be seen by any one on the records of the Circuit Court. Two other strange circumstances attended it which cannot be represented by a copy. One of them was, that the date ``1827'' had first been made ``1837'' and without the figure ``3'' being fully obliterated, the figure ``2'' had afterwards been made on top of it; the other was that, although the date was ten years old, the writing on it, from the freshness of its appearance was thought by many, and I believe by all who saw it, not to be more than a week old. The paper on which it was written had a very old appearance; and there were some old figures on the back of it which made the freshness of the writing on the face [of?] it, much more striking than I suppose it otherwise might have been. The reader's curiosity is no doubt excited to know what connection this assignment had with the land in question. The story is this: Dixon sold and deeded the land to Thomas;---Thomas sold it to Anderson; but before he gave a deed, Anderson sold it to Miller, and took Miller's note for the purchase money. When this note became due, Anderson sued Miller on it, and Miller procured an injunction from the Court of Chancery to stay the collection of the money until he should get a deed for the land.  Gen. Adams was employed as an attorney by Anderson in this chancery suit, and at the October term, 1827,  the injunction was dissolved, and a judgement given in favor of Anderson against Miller; and it was provided that Thomas was to execute a deed for the land in favor of Miller, and deliver it to Gen. Adams, to be held up by him till Miller paid the judgment, and then to deliver it to him. Miller left the county without paying the judgment. Anderson moved to Fulton county, where he has since died. When the widow came to Springfield last May or June, as before mentioned, and found the land deeded to Gen. Adams by Miller, she was naturally led to enquire why the money due upon the judgment had not been sent to them, inasmuch as he, Gen. Adams, had no authority to deliver Thomas' deed to Miller until the money was paid. Then it was the General told her, or perhaps her son, who came with her, that Anderson, in his life time, had assigned the judgment to him , Gen. Adams. I am now told that the General is exhibiting an assignment of the same judgment bearing date ``1828''! and in other respects differing from the one described;  and that he is asserting that no such assignment as the one copied by me ever existed; or if there did, it was forged between Talbott and the lawyers, and slipped into his papers for the purpose of injuring him.  Now, I can only say that I know precisely such an one did exist, and that Ben. Talbott, Wm. Butler, C. R. Matheny, John T. Stuart, Judge Logan, Robert Irwin, P. C. Canedy and S. M. Tinsley, all saw and examined, it, and that at least one half of them will swear that IT WAS IN GENERAL ADAMS' HANDWRITING!! And further, I know that Talbott will swear that he got it out of the General's possession, and returned it into his possession again. The assignment which the General is now exhibiting purports to have been signed by Anderson in writing. The one I copied was signed with a cross. I am told that Gen. Neale  says that he will swear, that he heard Gen. Adams tell young Anderson, that the assignment made by his father, was signed with a cross. The above are facts, as stated. I leave them without comment. I have given the names of persons who have knowledge of these facts, in order that any one who chooses may call on them and ascertain how far they will corroborate my statements. I have only made these statements because I am known by many to be one of the individuals against whom the charge of forging the assignment and slipping it into the General's papers, has been made; and because our silence might be construed into a confession of its truth. I shall not subscribe my name: but I hereby authorise the editor of the Journal to give it up to any one that may call for it.

To John Bennett
Dear Sir. Springfield, Aug. 5 1837
Mr. Edwards  tells me you wish to know, whether the act to which your town incorporation provision was attached, passed into a law. It did. You can organize under the general incorporation law as soon as you choose. I also tacked a provision on to a fellow's bill to authorize the relocation of the road from Salem down to your town; but I am not certain whether or not the bill passed; neither do I suppose I can ascertain before the laws will be published. If it is a law, Bowling Green, Bennett Abell, and yourself are appointed to make the change.  No news. No excitement except a little about the election of monday next. I suppose, of course, our friend Dr. Henry, stands no chance in your ``diggings''  Your friend and humble servant John Bennett Esq. A. LINCOLN

To Mary S. Owens
Friend Mary. Springfield Aug. 16th 1837
You will, no doubt, think it rather strange, that I should write you a letter on the same day on which we parted; and I can only account for it by supposing, that seeing you lately makes me think of you more than usual, while at our late meeting we had but few expressions of thoughts. You must know that I can not see you, or think of you, with entire indifference; and yet it may be, that you, are mistaken in regard to what my real feelings towards you are. If I knew you were not, I should not trouble you with this letter. Perhaps any other man would know enough without further information; but I consider it my peculiar right to plead ignorance, and your bounden duty to allow the plea. I want in all cases to do right, and most particularly so, in all cases with women. I want, at this particular time, more than any thing else, to do right with you, and if I knew it would be doing right, as I rather suspect it would, to let you alone, I would do it. And for the purpose of making the matter as plain as possible, I now say, that you can now drop the subject, dismiss your thoughts (if you ever had any) from me forever, and leave this letter unanswered, without calling forth one accusing murmer from me. And I will even go further, and say, that if it will add any thing to your comfort, or peace of mind, to do so, it is my sincere wish that you should. Do not understand by this, that I wish to cut your acquaintance. I mean no such thing. What I do wish is, that our further acquaintance shall depend upon yourself. If such further acquaintance would contribute nothing to your happiness, I am sure it would not to mine. If you feel yourself in any degree bound to me, I am now willing to release you, provided you wish it; while, on the other hand, I am willing, and even anxious to bind you faster, if I can be convinced that it will, in any considerable degree, add to your happiness. This, indeed, is the whole question with me. Nothing would make me more miserable than to believe you miserable---nothing more happy, than to know you were so. In what I have now said, I think I can not be misunderstood; and to make myself understood, is the only object of this letter. If it suits you best to not answer this---farewell---a long life and a merry one attend you. But if you conclude to write back, speak as plainly as I do. There can be neither harm nor danger, in saying, to me, any thing you think, just in the manner you think it. My respects to your sister. Your friend LINCOLN.

First Reply to James Adams
September 6, 1837
Messrs. Lincoln and Talbott in reply to Gen. Adams . In the Republican  of this morning a publication of Gen. Adams's appears, in which my name is used quite unreservedly. For this I thank the General. I thank him, because it gives me an opportunity, without appearing obtrusive, of explaining a part of a former publication of mine, which appears to me to have been misunderstood by many. In the former publication alluded to, I stated, in substance, that Mr. Talbott got a deed from the son of Gen. Adams for the purpose of correcting a mistake that had occurred on the record of the said deed in the Recorder's office---that he corrected the record, and brought the deed and handed it to me---and that, on opening the deed, another paper, being the assignment of a judgment, fell out of it. This statement Gen. Adams and the editor of the Republican, have seized upon as a most palpable evidence of fabrication and falsehood. They set themselves gravely about proving, that the assignment could not have been in the deed when Talbott got it from young Adams, as he, Talbott, would have seen it when he opened the deed to correct the record. Now the truth is, Talbott did see the assignment when he opened the deed, or at least he told me he did on the same day; and I only omitted to say so, in my former publication, because it was a matter of such palpable and necessary inference. I had stated that Talbott had corrected the record by the deed; and of course he must have opened it; and, just as the General and his friends argue, must have seen the assignment. I omitted to state the fact of Talbott's seeing the assignment, because its existence was so necessarily connected with other facts which I did state that I thought the greatest dunce could not but understand it. Did I say Talbott had not seen it? Did I say any thing that was inconsistent with his having seen it before? Most certainly I did neither; and if I did not, what becomes of the argument? These logical gentlemen cannot sustain their argument only by assuming that I did say negatively every thing that I did not say affirmatively; and upon the same assumption, we may expect to find the General, if a little harder pressed for argument, saying that I said Talbott came to our office with his head downwards, not that I actually said so, but because I omitted to say he came feet downward. In his publication to-day, the Genl. produces the affidavit of Reuben Radford,  in which it is said that Talbott told Radford that he did not find the assignment in the deed in the recording of which the error was committed, but that he found it wrapped in another paper in the Recorder's office, upon which statement the Genl. comments, as follows, to wit:---``If it be true as stated by Talbott to Radford, that he found the assignment wrapped up in another paper at his office, that contradicts the statement of Lincoln that it fell out of the deed.'' Is common sense to be abused with such sophistry? Did I say what Talbott found it in? If Talbott did find it in another paper at his office, is that any reason why he could not have folded it in a deed and brought it to my office? Can any one be so far duped, as to be made believe that what may have happened at Talbott's office at one time, is inconsistent with what happened at my office at another time? Now Talbott's statement of the case as he makes it to me is this, that he got a bunch of deeds from young Adams, and that he knows he found the assignment in the bunch, but he is not certain which particular deed it was in, nor is he certain whether it was folded in the same deed out of which it was took, or another one, when it was brought to my office. Is this a mysterious story? Is there any thing suspicious about it? But it is useless to dwell longer on this point. Any man who is not wilfully blind can see at a blush, that there is no discrepancy between Talbott and myself. In regard to the Genl's. concluding statement, that ``Having thus reviewed in my own way, the statements of Messrs. Talbott and Lincoln, and shown that they are not only inconsistent with truth, but each other''---I can only say, that I have shown that he has done no such thing; and if the reader is disposed to require any other evidence than the General's assertion, he will be of my opinion. Excepting the General's most flimsy attempt at mystification, in regard to a discrepancy between Talbott and myself, he has not denied a single statement that I made in my handbill. Every material statement I made has been sworn to by men who, in former times, were thought as respectable as General Adams. I stated that an assignment of a Judgment, a copy of which I gave, had existed---Benj. Talbott, C. R. Matheny, Wm. Butler, and Judge Logan, swore to its existence, I stated that it was said to be in Gen. Adams's hand writing---the same men swore it was in his hand writing. I stated that Talbott would swear that he got it out of Gen. Adams's possession---Talbott came forward and did swear it. Bidding adieu to the former publication, I now propose to examine the General's last gigantic production. I now propose to point out some discrepancies in the General's address; and such too, as he shall not be able to escape from. Speaking of the famous assignment, the Gen. says ``This last charge, which was their last resort, their dying effort to render my character infamous among my fellow-citizens, was manufactured at a certain lawyer's office in the town, printed at the office of the Sangamon Journal, and found its way into the world some time between two days just before the last election .'' Now turn to Mr. Keys'  affidavit in which you will find the following, (viz:) ``I certify that some time in May or the early part of June, 1837; I saw at Williams' corner a paper purporting to be an assignment, from Joseph Anderson to James Adams, which assignment, was signed by a mark to Anderson's name,'' &c. Now mark, if Keys saw the assignment on the last of May or 1st of June, Gen. Adams tells a falsehood when he says it was manufactured just before the election , which was on the 7th of August; and if it was manufactured just before the election, Keys tells a falsehood when he says he saw it on the last of May or 1st of June. Either Keys or the General is irretrievably in for it; and in the General's very condescending language, I say, ``let them settle it between them.'' Now again, let the reader, bearing in mind that Gen. Adams has unequivocally said, in one part of his address, that the charge in relation to the assignment was manufactured just before the election ; turn to the affidavit of Peter S. Weber,  where the following will be found, (viz:) ``I Peter S. Weber do certify, that from the best of my recollection on the day or day after Gen. Adams and wife started for the Illinois Rapids, in May last, that I was at the house of Gen. Adams, sitting in the Kitchen, situated on the back part of the house, it being in the afternoon, and that Benjamin Talbott came round the house, back into the Kitchen, and appeared wild and confused, and that he laid a package of papers on the kitchen table and requested that they should be handed to Lucian. He made no apology for coming to the kitchen, nor for not handing them to Lucian himself, but showed the token of being frightened and confused both in demeanor and speech, and for what cause I could not apprehend.'' Commenting upon Weber's affidavit, Gen. Adams asks, ``Why this fright and confusion?'' I reply that this is a question for the General himself. Weber says that it was in May, and if so, it is most clear, that Talbott was not frightened on account of the assignment, unless the General lies when he says the assignment charge was manufactured just before the election . Is it not a strong evidence, that the General is not travelling with the pole-star of truth in his front, to see him in one part of his address roundly asserting, that the assignment was manufactured just before the election , and then, forgetting that position, procuring Weber's most foolish affidavit, to prove that Talbott had been engaged in manufacturing it two months before ? In another part of his address, Gen. Adams says, ``That I hold an assignment of said judgement, dated the 20th of May, 1828, and signed by said Anderson, I have never pretended to deny or conceal, but stated that fact in one of my circulars previous to the election, and also in answer to a Bill in Chancery .'' Now I pronounce this statement unqualifiedly false; and shall not rely on the word or oath of any man to sustain me in what I say; but will let the whole be decided by reference to the Circular and answer in Chancery of which the General speaks. In his circular he did speak of an assignment; but he did not say it bore date 20th of May 1828; nor did he say it bore any date. In his answer in chancery, he did say that he had an assignment; but he did not say that it bore date the 20th May 1828; but so far from it, he said on oath (for he swore to the answer) that as well as recollected, he obtained it in 1827. If any one doubts, let him examine the Circular and answer for himself. They are both accessible. It will readily be observed that the principal part of Adams's defence, rests upon the argument, that if he had been base enough to forge an assignment, he would not have been fool enough to forge one that would not cover the case. This argument he used in his circular before the election. The Republican has used it at least once, since then; and Adams uses it again in his publication of to-day. Now I pledge myself to show, that he is just such a fool , that he and his friends have contended it was impossible for him to be. Recollect---he says he has a genuine assignment; and that he got Joseph Klein's  affidavit, stating that he had seen it, and that he believed the signature to have been executed by the same hand, that signed Anderson's name to the answer in Chancery. Luckily Klein took a copy of this genuine assignment, which I have been permitted to see; and hence I know it does not cover the case . In the first place it is headed ``Joseph Anderson vs. Joseph Miller,'' and leads off ``Judgment in Sangamon Circuit Court.'' Now, mark, there never was a case in Sangamon Circuit Court entitled Joseph Anderson vs. Joseph Miller. The case mentioned in my former publication, and the only one between these parties that ever existed in the Circuit Court, was entitled Joseph Miller vs. Joseph Anderson, Miller being the plaintiff. What then becomes of all their sophistry about Adams not being fool enough to forge an assignment that would not cover the case? It is certain that the present one does not cover the case; and if he even got it honestly, it is still clear that he was fool enough to pay for an assignment that does not cover the case. The General asks for the proof of disinterested witnesses. Who does he consider disinterested? None can be more so than those who have already testified against him. No one of them had the least interest on earth, so far as I can learn, to injure him. True, he says they had conspired against him; but if the testimony of an angel from heaven were introduced against him, he would make the same charge of conspiracy. And I now put the question to every reflecting man, do you believe that Benjamin Talbott, Charles R. Matheny, William Butler and Stephen T. Logan, all sustaining high and spotless characters, and justly proud of them, would deliberately perjure themselves, without any motive whatever, except to injure a man's election; and that too, a man who had been a candidate, time out of mind, and yet who had never been elected to any office? Adams' assurance, in demanding disinterested testimony, is surpassing. He brings in the affidavit of his own son, and even of Peter S. Weber, with whom I am not acquainted, but who, I suppose, is some black or mulatto boy, from his being kept in the Kitchen, to prove his points; but when such a man as Talbott, a man who, but two years ago run against Gen. Adams for the office of Recorder, and beat him more than four votes to one, is introduced against him, he asks the community, with all the consequence of a Lord, to reject his testimony. I might easily write a volume, pointing out inconsistencies between the statements in Adams' last address with one another, and with other known facts; but I am aware the reader must already be tired with the length of this article. His opening statements, that he was first accused of being a tory, and that he refuted that; that then the Sampson's Ghost story was got up, and he reputed [refuted] that; and that as a last resort, a dying effort, the assignment charge was got up, is all as false as hell, as all this community must know. Sampson's Ghost first made its appearance in print, and that too, after Keys swears he saw the assignment, as any one may see by reference to the files of papers; and Gen. Adams himself, in reply to the Sampson's Ghost story, was the first man that raised the cry of toryism , and it was only by way of set-off, and never in seriousness, that it was bandied back at him. His effort is to make the impression that his enemies first made the charge of toryism, and he drove them from that, then Sampson's Ghost, he drove them from that, then finally the assignment charge was manufactured just before the election . Now the only general reply he ever made to the Sampson's Ghost and tory charges, he made at one and the same time , and not in succession as he states; and the date of that reply will show, that it was made at least a month after the date on which Keys swears he saw the Anderson assignment. But enough. In conclusion I will only say that I have a character to defend as well as Gen. Adams, but I disdain to whine about it as he does. It is true I have no children nor Kitchen boys ; and if I had, I should scorn to lug them in to make affidavits for me. Sept. 6, 1837. A. LINCOLN.

To the Third Auditor of the United States Treasury
Sir Sept. 9th. 1837-
Enclosed are the proofs made for procuring payment for a horse lost by John W. Warnsing on the Black Hawk campaign. Warnsing has sold the claim to one Thomas Epperson; and both Warnsing at [ sic ] Epperson tell me there is a Power of attorney from Warnsing to Epperson now on file in your office. If this be true, I suppose the award & Draft may be made directly to Epperson; if not, let them be made to Warnsing. In either case, if not inconsistent with your regulations, let the letter, enclosing the Draft, be directed to me at [this?] place. The disbursing officer that paid [War]nsing was [the same that paid] Genl. Henry's Brigade [illegible word].  We do not recollect his name. Respectfully your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

Second Reply to James Adams
October 18, 1837
TO THE PUBLIC. Such is the turn which things have lately taken, that when Gen. Adams writes a book, I am expected to write a commentary on it. In the Republican of this morning he has presented the world with a new work of six columns in length; in consequence of which I must beg the room of one column in the Journal. It is obvious that a minute reply cannot be made in one column to every thing that can be said in six; and, consequently, I hope that expectation will be answered, if I reply to such parts of the General's publication as are worth replying to. It may not be improper to remind the reader that in his publication of Sept. 6th, General Adams said that the assignment charge was manufactured just before the election ; and that in reply I proved that statement to be false by Keyes, his own witness. Now, without attempting to explain, he furnishes me with another witness (Tinsley) by which the same thing is proved, to wit, that the assignment was not manufactured just before the election ; but that it was seen some weeks before. Let it be borne in mind that Adams made this statement---has himself furnished two witnesses to prove its falsehood, and does not attempt to deny or explain it. Before going farther, let a pin be stuck here, labelled ``one lie proved and confessed.'' On the 6th of Sept. he said he had before stated in a handbill that he held an assignment dated May 20th, 1828, which in reply I pronounced to be false, and referred to the hand bill for the truth of what I said. This week he forgets to make any explanation of this. Let another pin be stuck here, labelled as before. I mention these things, because, if, when I convict him in one falsehood, he is permitted to shift his ground, and pass it by in silence, there can be no end to this controversy. The first thing that attracts my attention in the General's present production, is the information he is pleased to give to ``those who are made to suffer at his (my) hands .'' Under present circumstances, this cannot apply to me, for I am not a widow nor an orphan : nor have I a wife or children who by possibility might become such. Such, however, I have no doubt, have been, and will again be made to suffer at his hands!! Hands! yes, they are the mischievous agents. The next thing I shall notice is his favorite expression, ``knot of lawyers, doctors and others,'' which he is so fond of applying to all who dare expose his rascality. Now, let it be remembered that when he first came to this country, he attempted to impose himself upon the community as a lawyer , and actually carried the attempt so far, as to induce a man who was under a charge of murder to intrust the defence of his life in his hands, and finally took his money and got him hanged. Is this the man that is to raise a breeze in his favor by abusing lawyers? If he is not himself a lawyer, it is for the lack of sense, and not of inclination. If he is not a lawyer, he is a liar, for he proclaimed himself a lawyer, and got a man hanged by depending on him. Passing over such parts of the article as have neither fact nor argument in them, I come to the question asked by Adams whether any person ever saw the assignment in his possession. This is an insult to common sense. Talbott has swore once, and repeated time and again, that he got it out of Adams' possession and returned it into the same possession. Still, as though he was addressing fools, he has assurance to ask if any person ever saw it in his possession. Next I quote a sentence ``Now my son Lucian swears that when Talbott called for the deed, that he, Talbott, opened it and pointed out the error .'' True. His son Lucian did swear as he says; and in doing so, he swore what I will prove by his own affidavit to be a falsehood. Turn to Lucian's affidavit, and you will there see, that Talbott called for the deed by which to correct an error on the record . Thus it appears that the error in question was on the record , and not in the deed . How then could Talbott open the deed and point out the error ? Where a thing is not , it cannot be pointed out. The error was not in the deed , and of course could not be pointed out there. This does not merely prove, that the error could not be pointed out, as Lucian swore it was; but it proves, too, that the deed was not opened in his presence with a special view to the error, for if it had been, he could not have failed to see that there was no error in it. It is easy enough to see why Lucian swore this. His object was to prove that the assignment was not in the deed, when Talbott got it: but it was discovered he could not swear this safely, without first swearing the deed was opened ---and if he swore it was opened , he must show a motive for opening it, and the conclusion with him and his father was, that the pointing out the error, would appear the most plausible. For the purpose of showing that the assignment was not in the bundle when Talbott got it, is the story introduced in Lucian's affidavit, that the deeds were counted . It is a remarkable fact, and one that should stand as a warning to all liars and fabricators, that in this short affidavit of Lucian's, he only attempted to depart from the truth, so far as I have the means of knowing, in two points, to wit, in the opening the deed and pointing out the error ; and the counting of the deeds ,---and in both of these he caught himself. About the counting, he caught himself thus---After saying the bundle contained five deeds and a lease, he proceeds, ``and I saw no other papers than the said deed and lease.'' First he has six papers, and then he saw none but two . For ``my son Lucian's'' benefit, let a pin be stuck here. Adams again adduces the argument, that he could not have forged the assignment, for the reason that he could have had no motive for it. With those that know the facts there is no absence of motive. Admitting the paper, which he has filed in the suit to be genuine, it is clear that it cannot answer the purpose for which he designs it. Hence his motive for making one that he supposed would answer, is obvious. His making the date too old is also easily enough accounted for. The records were not in his hands, and then there being some considerable talk upon this particular subject, he knew he could not examine the records to ascertain the precise dates without subjecting himself to suspicion; and hence he concluded to try it by guess, and as it turned out, missed it a little. About Miller's deposition, I have a word to say. In the first place, Miller's answer to the first question shows upon its face, that he had been tampered with, and the answer dictated to him. He was asked if he knew Joel Wright and James Adams; and above three-fourths of his answer consists of what he knew about Joseph Anderson, a man about whom nothing had been asked, nor a word said in the question---a fact that can only be accounted for upon the supposition, that Adams had secretly told him what he wished him to swear to. Another of Miller's answers I will prove both by common sense and the court of record is untrue. To one question he answers, ``Anderson brought a suit against me before James Adams, then an acting Justice of the Peace in Sangamon County, before whom he obtained a judgment. ``Q. Did you remove the same by injunction to the Sangamon Circuit Court? Answer. I did remove it.'' Now mark---it is said he removed it by injunction . The word `` injunction '' in common language imports a command that some person or thing shall not move or be removed ; in law it has the same meaning. An injunction issuing out of chancery to a Justice of the Peace, is a command to him to stop all proceedings in a name case till further orders. It is not an order to remove , but to stop or stay something that is already moving . Besides this, the records of the Sangamon Circuit Court show, that the judgement of which Miller swore was never removed into said court by injunction or otherwise. I have now to take notice of a part of Adams' address which in the order of time should have been noticed before. It is in these words, ``I have now shown, in the opinion of 2 competent judges that the hand writing of the forged assignment differed from mine, and by one of them that it could not be mistaken for mine .'' That is false. Tinsley no doubt is the judge referred to; and by reference to his certificate it will be seen, that he did not say the hand writing of the assignment could not be mistaken for Adams'---nor did he use any other expression substantially, or any thing near substantially the same. But if Tinsley had said the hand writing could not be mistaken for Adams', it would have been equally unfortunate for Adams: for it then would have contradicted Keyes, who says, ``I looked at the writing and judged it the said Adams' or a good imitation.'' Adams speaks with much apparent confidence of his success on the pending law suit, and the ultimate maintainance of his title to the land in question. Without wishing to disturb the pleasure of his dream, I would say to him that it is not impossible, that he may yet be taught to sing a different song in relation to the matter. At the end of Miller's deposition, Adams asks, ``Will Mr. Lincoln now say that he is almost convinced my title to this ten acre tract of land is founded in fraud?'' I answer, I will not. I will now change the phraseology so as to make it run---I am quite convinced, &c. I cannot pass in silence Adams' assertion that he has proved that the forged assignment was not in the deed when it came from his house by Talbott , the Recorder. In this, although Talbott has sworn that the assignment was in the bundle of deeds when it came from his house, Adams has the unaccountable assurance to say that he has proved the contrary by Talbott. Let him, or his friends attempt to show, wherein he proved any such thing by Talbott. In his publication of the 6th of Sept. he hinted to Talbott, that he might be mistaken . In his present, speaking of Talbott and me, he says `` They may have been imposed upon .'' Can any man of the least penetration fail to see the object of this? After he has stormed and raved till he hopes or imagines that he has got us a little scared, he wishes to softly whisper in our ears, `` If you'll quit I will .'' If he could get us to say, that some unknown, undefined being had slipped the assignment into our hands without our knowledge, not a doubt remains but that he would immediately discover, that we were the purest men on earth. This is the ground he evidently wishes us to understand he is willing to compromise upon. But we ask no such charity at his hands. We are neither mistaken nor imposed upon . We have made the statements we have, because we know them to be true---and we choose to live or die by them. Esq. Carter,  who is Adams friend, personal and political, will recollect, that, on the 5th of this month, he, (Adams) with a great affectation of modesty, declared that he would never introduce his own child as a witness. Notwithstanding this affectation of modesty, he has in his present publication, introduced his child as a witness; and as if to show with how much contempt he could treat his own declaration, he has had this same Esq. Carter to administer the oath to him. And so important a witness does he consider him, and so entirely does the whole of his present production depend upon the testimony of his child, that in it he has mentioned ``my son,'' ``my son Lucian,'' ``Lucian my son,'' and the like expressions no less than fifteen different times. Let it be remembered here, that I have shown the affidavit of ``my darling son Lucian,'' to be false by the evidence apparent on its own face; and I now ask if that affidavit be taken away, what foundation will the fabric have left to stand upon? General Adams' publications and out-door manoevring, taken in connection with the editorial articles of the Republican, are not more foolish and contradictory than they are ludicrous and amusing. One week the Republican notifies the public that Gen. Adams is preparing an instrument that will tear, rend, split, rive, blow up, confound, overwhelm, annihilate, extinguish, exterminate, burst asunder, and grind to powder all his slanderers, and particularly Talbott and Lincoln---all of which is to be done in due time . Then for two or three weeks all is calm---not a word said. Again the Republican comes forth with a mere passing remark that ``public opinion has decided in favor of Gen. Adams,'' and intimates that he will give himself no more trouble about the matter. In the mean time Adams himself is prowling about, and as Burns says of the devil, `` For prey, a' holes and corners tryin ,'' and in one instance, goes so far as to take an old acquaintance of mine several steps from a crowd, and apparently weighed down with the importance of his business, gravely and solemnly asks him if `` he ever heard Lincoln say he was a deist .'' Anon the Republican comes again, ``We invite the attention of the public to Gen. Adams' communication,'' &c, ``The victory is a great one.'' ``The triumph is overwhelming.'' [I really believe the editor of the Ill. Republican is fool enough to think General Adams is an honest man.] Then Gen. Adams leads off. `` Authors most egregiously mistaken ,'' &c. `` most wofully shall their presumption be punished ,'' &c. [Lord have mercy on us.] `` The hour is yet to come, yes nigh at hand ---(how long first do you reckon?)--- when the Journal and its junto shall say, I have appeared too early.''---``then infamy shall be laid bare to the public gaze .'' Suddenly the Gen. appears to relent at the severity with which he is treating us and he exclaims, `` The condemnation of my enemies is the inevitable result of my own defence .'' For your health's sake, dear Gen. do not permit your tenderness of heart to afflict you so much on our account. For some reason (perhaps because we are killed so quickly) we shall never be sensible of our suffering. Farewell, General. I will see you again at court, if not before---when and where we will settle the question whether you or the widow shall have the land.  Oct. 18, 1837. A. LINCOLN.

Bond of William Butler as Clerk of the Circuit Court of Sangamon County
October 19, 1837
Know all men by these presents that we William Butler, Philip. C. Latham Garrett Elkin A. Lincoln & John T Stuart are held and firmly bound unto Joseph Duncan Governor of the State of Illinois and his successors in office, for the use of the People of the State of Illinois in the penal sum of Two Thousand Dollars, lawfull money of the United States, the payment of which, well and truly to be made, and performed, we and each of us, bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, and administrators, jointly & severally firmly by these presents, witness our hands and seals this 19th. day of October 1837 The condition of this obligation is such that if the above bounden William Butler shall faithfully discharge the duties of his office as Clerk of the Circuit Court in and for the County of Sangamon, and State of Illinois according to laws, and shall deliver up, when lawfully required so to do, the Papers, Books, Records, and Proceedings appertaining thereto, whole, safe, and undefaced, then the above obligation to be void, otherwise, to remain in full force and virtue William Butler (Seal) A. Lincoln (Seal) P. C. Latham (Seal) John T. Stuart (Seal) Garrett Elkin (Seal)

Document Drawn for Crawford B. Dally
[October 30, 1837]
I hereby authorize the clerk of the County Commissioner's Court of Sangamon County to issue a license authorizing any legally qualified person to marry Edward H. Tyler  to my daughter Hester Ann Dally.  Oct 30 1837 CRAWFORD B DALLY Attest A. Lincoln

To William A. Minshall
Friend Minshall. Springfield, Dec. 7 1837
I write this to say that it is Stuart's intention to be a candidate for congress again; and that he will be publicly announced before long. I would suggest to you the propriety of your letting our friends in your parts know, that he is to be the candidate. On the receipt of this, write me all you know and all you think , in regard to our prospects for the race. I believe we have nothing here that would be news to you. I am ashamed to write so short a letter; but lack of material , you know, will [make?] any thing short. Your sincere friend A. LINCOLN P.S. We have adopted it as part of our policy here, to never speak of Douglass at all. Is'nt that the best mode of treating so small a matter?

Address Before the Young Men's Lyceum of Springfield, Illinois
January 27, 1838
THE PERPETUATION OF OUR POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS As a subject for the remarks of the evening, the perpetuation of our political institutions , is selected. In the great journal of things happening under the sun, we, the American People, find our account running, under date of the nineteenth century of the Christian era. We find ourselves in the peaceful possession, of the fairest portion of the earth, as regards extent of territory, fertility of soil, and salubrity of climate. We find ourselves under the government of a system of political institutions, conducing more essentially to the ends of civil and religious liberty, than any of which the history of former times tells us. We, when mounting the stage of existence, found ourselves the legal inheritors of these fundamental blessings. We toiled not in the acquirement or establishment of them---they are a legacy bequeathed us, by a once hardy, brave, and patriotic, but now lamented and departed race of ancestors. Their's was the task (and nobly they performed it) to possess themselves, and through themselves, us, of this goodly land; and to uprear upon its hills and its valleys, a political edifice of liberty and equal rights; 'tis ours only, to transmit these, the former, unprofaned by the foot of an invader; the latter, undecayed by the lapse of time, and untorn by [usurpation---to the latest generation that fate shall permit the world to know. This task of gratitude to our fathers, justice to]  ourselves, duty to posterity, and love for our species in general, all imperatively require us faithfully to perform. How, then, shall we perform it? At what point shall we expect the approach of danger? By what means shall we fortify against it? Shall we expect some transatlantic military giant, to step the Ocean, and crush us at a blow? Never! All the armies of Europe, Asia and Africa combined, with all the treasure of the earth (our own excepted) in their military chest; with a Buonaparte for a commander, could not by force, take a drink from the Ohio, or make a track on the Blue Ridge, in a trial of a thousand years. At what point then is the approach of danger to be expected? I answer, if it ever reach us, it must spring up amongst us. It cannot come from abroad. If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of freemen, we must live through all time, or die by suicide. I hope I am over wary; but if I am not, there is, even now, something of ill-omen amongst us. I mean the increasing disregard for law which pervades the country; the growing disposition to substitute the wild and furious passions, in lieu of the sober judgement of Courts; and the worse than savage mobs, for the executive ministers of justice. This disposition is awfully fearful in any community; and that it now exists in ours, though grating to our feelings to admit, it would be a violation of truth, and an insult to our intelligence, to deny. Accounts of outrages committed by mobs, form the every-day news of the times. They have pervaded the country, from New England to Louisiana;---they are neither peculiar to the eternal snows of the former, nor the burning suns of the latter;---they are not the creature of climate---neither are they confined to the slaveholding, or the non-slaveholding States. Alike, they spring up among the pleasure hunting masters of Southern slaves, and the order loving citizens of the land of steady habits. Whatever, then, their cause may be, it is common to the whole country. It would be tedious, as well as useless, to recount the horrors of all of them. Those happening in the State of Mississippi, and at St. Louis, are, perhaps, the most dangerous in example, and revolting to humanity. In the Mississippi case, they first commenced by hanging the regular gamblers: a set of men, certainly not following for a livelihood, a very useful, or very honest occupation; but one which, so far from being forbidden by the laws, was actually licensed by an act of the Legislature, passed but a single year before. Next, negroes, suspected of conspiring to raise an insurrection, were caught up and hanged in all parts of the State: then, white men, supposed to be leagued with the negroes; and finally, strangers, from neighboring States, going thither on business, were, in many instances, subjected to the same fate. Thus went on this process of hanging, from gamblers to negroes, from negroes to white citizens, and from these to strangers; till, dead men were seen literally dangling from the boughs of trees upon every road side; and in numbers almost sufficient, to rival the native Spanish moss of the country, as a drapery of the forest. Turn, then, to that horror-striking scene at St. Louis. A single victim was only sacrificed there. His story is very short; and is, perhaps, the most highly tragic, of any thing of its length, that has ever been witnessed in real life. A mulatto man, by the name of McIntosh, was seized in the street, dragged to the suburbs of the city, chained to a tree, and actually burned to death; and all within a single hour from the time he had been a freeman, attending to his own business, and at peace with the world. Such are the effects of mob law; and such are the scenes, becoming more and more frequent in this land so lately famed for love of law and order; and the stories of which, have even now grown too familiar, to attract any thing more, than an idle remark. But you are, perhaps, ready to ask, ``What has this to do with the perpetuation of our political institutions?'' I answer, it has much to do with it. Its direct consequences are, comparatively speaking, but a small evil; and much of its danger consists, in the proneness of our minds, to regard its direct, as its only consequences. Abstractly considered, the hanging of the gamblers at Vicksburg, was of but little consequence. They constitute a portion of population, that is worse than useless in a[ny community; and their death, if no perni]cious example be set by it, is never matter of reasonable regret with any one. If they were annually swept, from the stage of existence, by the plague or small pox, honest men would, perhaps, be much profited, by the operation. Similar too, is the correct reasoning, in regard to the burning of the negro at St. Louis. He had forfeited his life, by the perpetration of an outrageous murder, upon one of the most worthy and respectable citizens of the city; and had he not died as he did, he must have died by the sentence of the law, in a very short time afterwards. As to him alone, it was as well the way it was, as it could otherwise have been. But the example in either case, was fearful. When men take it in their heads to day, to hang gamblers, or burn murderers, they should recollect, that, in the confusion usually attending such transactions, they will be as likely to hang or burn some one, who is neither a gambler nor a murderer [as] one who is; and that, acting upon the [exam]ple they set, the mob of to-morrow, may, an[d] probably will, hang or burn some of them, [by th]e very same mistake. And not only so; the innocent, those who have ever set their faces against violations of law in every shape, alike with the guilty, fall victims to the ravages of mob law; and thus it goes on, step by step, till all the walls erected for the defence of the persons and property of individuals, are trodden down, and disregarded. But all this even, is not the full extent of the evil. By such examples, by instances of the perpetrators of such acts going unpunished, the lawless in spirit, are encouraged to become lawless in practice; and having been used to no restraint, but dread of punishment, they thus become, absolutely unrestrained. Having ever regarded Government as their deadliest bane, they make a jubilee of the suspension of its operations; and pray for nothing so much, as its total annihilation. While, on the other hand, good men, men who love tranquility, who desire to abide by the laws, and enjoy their benefits, who would gladly spill their blood in the defence of their country; seeing their property destroyed; their families insulted, and their lives endangered; their persons injured; and seeing nothing in prospect that forebodes a change for the better; become tired of, and disgusted with, a Government that offers them no protection; and are not much averse to a change in which they imagine they have nothing to lose. Thus, then, by the operation of this mobocratic spirit, which all must admit, is now abroad in the land, the strongest bulwark of any Government, and particularly of those constituted like ours, may effectually be broken down and destroyed---I mean the attachment of the People. Whenever this effect shall be produced among us; whenever the vicious portion of population shall be permitted to gather in bands of hundreds and thousands, and burn churches, ravage and rob provision stores, throw printing presses into rivers, shoot editors,  and hang and burn obnoxious persons at pleasure, and with impunity; depend on it, this Government cannot last. By such things, the feelings of the best citizens will become more or less alienated from it; and thus it will be left without friends, or with too few, and those few too weak, to make their friendship effectual. At such a time and under such circumstances, men of sufficient tal[ent and ambition will not be want]ing to seize [the opportunity, strike the blow, and over-turn that fair fabric], which for the last half century, has been the fondest hope, of the lovers of freedom, throughout the world. I know the American People are much attached to their Government;---I know they would suffer much for its sake;---I know they would endure evils long and patiently, before they would ever think of exchanging it for another. Yet, notwithstanding all this, if the laws be continually despised and disregarded, if their rights to be secure in their persons and property, are held by no better tenure than the caprice of a mob, the alienation of their affections from the Government is the natural consequence; and to that, sooner or later, it must come. Here then, is one point at which danger may be expected. The question recurs ``how shall we fortify against it?'' The answer is simple. Let every American, every lover of liberty, every well wisher to his posterity, swear by the blood of the Revolution, never to violate in the least particular, the laws of the country; and never to tolerate their violation by others. As the patriots of seventy-six did to the support of the Declaration of Independence, so to the support of the Constitution and Laws, let every American pledge his life, his property, and his sacred honor;---let every man remember that to violate the law, is to trample on the blood of his father, and to tear the character [charter?] of his own, and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the laws, be breathed by every American mother, to the lisping babe, that prattles on her lap---let it be taught in schools, in seminaries, and in colleges;---let it be written in Primmers, spelling books, and in Almanacs;---let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in legislative halls, and enforced in courts of justice. And, in short, let it become the political religion of the nation; and let the old and the young, the rich and the poor, the grave and the gay, of all sexes and tongues, and colors and conditions, sacrifice unceasingly upon its altars. While ever a state of feeling, such as this, shall universally, or even, very generally prevail throughout the nation, vain will be every effort, and fruitless every attempt, to subvert our national freedom. When I so pressingly urge a strict observance of all the laws, let me not be understood as saying there are no bad laws, nor that grievances may not arise, for the redress of which, no legal provisions have been made. I mean to say no such thing. But I do mean to say, that, although bad laws, if they exist, should be repealed as soon as possible, still while they continue in force, for the sake of example, they should be religiously observed. So also in unprovided cases. If such arise, let proper legal provisions be made for them with the least possible delay; but, till then, let them if not too intolerable, be borne with. There is no grievance that is a fit object of redress by mob law. In any case that arises, as for instance, the promulgation of abolitionism, one of two positions is necessarily true; that is, the thing is right within itself, and therefore deserves the protection of all law and all good citizens; or, it is wrong, and therefore proper to be prohibited by legal enactments; and in neither case, is the interposition of mob law, either necessary, justifiable, or excusable. But, it may be asked, why suppose danger to our political institutions? Have we not preserved them for more than fifty years? And why may we not for fifty times as long? We hope there is no sufficient reason. We hope all dangers may be overcome; but to conclude that no danger may ever arise, would itself be extremely dangerous. There are now, and will hereafter be, many causes, dangerous in their tendency, which have not existed heretofore; and which are not too insignificant to merit attention. That our government should have been maintained in its original form from its establishment until now, is not much to be wondered at. It had many props to support it through that period, which now are decayed, and crumbled away. Through that period, it was felt by all, to be an undecided experiment; now, it is understood to be a successful one. Then, all that sought celebrity and fame, and distinction, expected to find them in the success of that experiment. Their all was staked upon it:---their destiny was inseparably linked with it. Their ambition aspired to display before an admiring world, a practical demonstration of the truth of a proposition, which had hitherto been considered, at best no better, than problematical; namely, the capability of a people to govern themselves . If they succeeded, they were to be immortalized; their names were to be transferred to counties and cities, and rivers and mountains; and to be revered and sung, and toasted through all time. If they failed, they were to be called knaves and fools, and fanatics for a fleeting hour; then to sink and be forgotten. They succeeded. The experiment is successful; and thousands have won their deathless names in making it so. But the game is caught; and I believe it is true, that with the catching, end the pleasures of the chase. This field of glory is harvested, and the crop is already appropriated. But new reapers will arise, and they , too, will seek a field. It is to deny, what the history of the world tells us is true, to suppose that men of ambition and talents will not continue to spring up amongst us. And, when they do, they will as naturally seek the gratification of their ruling passion, as others have so done before them. The question then, is, can that gratification be found in supporting and maintaining an edifice that has been erected by others? Most certainly it cannot. Many great and good men sufficiently qualified for any task they should undertake, may ever be found, whose ambition would aspire to nothing beyond a seat in Congress, a gubernatorial or a presidential chair; but such belong not to the family of the lion, or the tribe of the eagle ,[.] What! think you these places would satisfy an Alexander, a Caesar, or a Napoleon? Never! Towering genius disdains a beaten path. It seeks regions hitherto unexplored. It sees no distinction in adding story to story, upon the monuments of fame, erected to the memory of others. It denies that it is glory enough to serve under any chief. It scorns to tread in the footsteps of any predecessor, however illustrious. It thirsts and burns for distinction; and, if possible, it will have it, whether at the expense of emancipating slaves, or enslaving freemen. Is it unreasonable then to expect, that some man possessed of the loftiest genius, coupled with ambition sufficient to push it to its utmost stretch, will at some time, spring up among us? And when such a one does, it will require the people to be united with each other, attached to the government and laws, and generally intelligent, to successfully frustrate his designs. Distinction will be his paramount object; and although he would as willingly, perhaps more so, acquire it by doing good as harm; yet, that opportunity being past, and nothing left to be done in the way of building up, he would set boldly to the task of pulling down. Here then, is a probable case, highly dangerous, and such a one as could not have well existed heretofore. Another reason which once was ; but which, to the same extent, is now no more , has done much in maintaining our institutions thus far. I mean the powerful influence which the interesting scenes of the revolution had upon the passions of the people as distinguished from their judgment. By this influence, the jealousy, envy, and avarice, incident to our nature, and so common to a state of peace, prosperity, and conscious strength, were, for the time, in a great measure smothered and rendered inactive; while the deep rooted principles of hate , and the powerful motive of revenge , instead of being turned against each other, were directed exclusively against the British nation. And thus, from the force of circumstances, the basest principles of our nature, were either made to lie dormant, or to become the active agents in the advancement of the noblest of cause[s?]---that of establishing and maintaining civil and religious liberty. But this state of feeling must fade , is fading , has faded , with the circumstances that produced it. I do not mean to say, that the scenes of the revolution are now or ever will be entirely forgotten; but that like every thing else, they must fade upon the memory of the world, and grow more and more dim by the lapse of time. In history, we hope, they will be read of, and recounted, so long as the bible shall be read;---but even granting that they will, their influence cannot be what it heretofore has been. Even then, they cannot be so universally known, nor so vividly felt, as they were by the generation just gone to rest. At the close of that struggle, nearly every adult male had been a participator in some of its scenes. The consequence was, that of those scenes, in the form of a husband, a father, a son or a brother, a living history was to be found in every family---a history bearing the indubitable testimonies of its own authenticity, in the limbs mangled, in the scars of wounds received, in the midst of the very scenes related---a history, too, that could be read and understood alike by all, the wise and the ignorant, the learned and the unlearned. But those histories are gone. They can be read no more forever. They were a fortress of strength; but, what invading foemen could never do , the silent artillery of time has done ; the levelling of its walls. They are gone. They were a forest of giant oaks; but the all-resistless hurricane has swept over them, and left only, here and there, a lonely trunk, despoiled of its verdure, shorn of its foliage; unshading and unshaded, to murmur in a few more gentle breezes, and to combat with its mutilated limbs, a few more ruder storms, then to sink, and be no more. They were the pillars of the temple of liberty; and now, that they have crumbled away, that temple must fall, unless we, their descendants, supply their places with other pillars, hewn from the solid quarry of sober reason. Passion has helped us; but can do so no more. It will in future be our enemy. Reason, cold, calculating, unimpassioned reason, must furnish all the materials for our future support and defence. Let those [materials] be moulded into general intelligence , [ sound ] morality and, in particular, a reverence for the constitution and laws ; and, that we improved to the last; that we remained free to the last; that we revered his name to the last; [tha]t, during his long sleep, we permitted no hostile foot to pass over or desecrate [his] resting place; shall be that which to le[arn the last] trump shall awaken our WASH[INGTON. Upon these] let the proud fabric of freedom r[est, as the] rock of its basis; and as truly as has been said of the only greater institution, `` the gates of hell shall not prevail against it .''

Application Written for James Wright
[March, 1838]
James Wright hereby applies to the county commissioners' court of Sangamon county for a Writ of ad quod damnum to erect a mill dam on Brush creek on the South West quarter of Section number 18. Township 14 North of Range 4 West and the South East quarter of Section 13 in Township 14 North of Range 5 West, or either of them

To Levi Davis
Dear Sir: Springfield, March 15- 1838
We received yours of the 2nd. Inst. by due course of mail, and have only to offer in excuse for not answering it sooner, that we have been in a great state of confusion here ever since the receipt of your letter; and also, that your clients can not suffer by the delay. The suit is merely instituted to quiet a title which has passed through Dr. Stapp,  but to which he now lays no claim as we understand. He is a mere nominal party to the proceeding. More than all this, we believe nothing will or can be done with the case at this court. We beg your pardon for our neglect in this business; if it had been important to you or your client we would have done better. Yours sincerely STUART & LINCOLN

Note for the Completion of the State Capitol
$16,666.67. Springfield, March 22, 1838.
One year after date, we, the undersigned, or either of us, promise to pay to the President, Directors and Company of the State Bank of Illinois, sixteen thousand, six hundred and sixty-six dollars and sixty-seven cents, for value received, negotiable and payable at the bank, in Springfield, with interest until paid, at the rate of six per centum per annum, payable semi-annually.

To Mrs. Orville H. Browning
Dear Madam: Springfield, April 1. 1838.
Without appologising for being egotistical, I shall make the history of so much of my own life, as has elapsed since I saw you, the subject of this letter. And by the way I now discover, that, in order to give a full and inteligible account of the things I have done and suffered since I saw you, I shall necessarily have to relate some that happened before . It was, then, in the autumn of 1836, that a married lady of my acquaintance,  and who was a great friend of mine, being about to pay a visit to her father and other relatives residing in Kentucky, proposed to me, that on her return she would bring a sister  of hers with her, upon condition that I would engage to become her brother-in-law with all convenient dispach. I, of course, accepted the proposal; for you know I could not have done otherwise, had I really been averse to it; but privately between you and me, I was most confoundedly well pleased with the project. I had seen the said sister some three years before, thought her inteligent and agreeable, and saw no good objection to plodding life through hand in hand with her. Time passed on, the lady took her journey and in due time returned, sister in company sure enough. This stomached me a little; for it appeared to me, that her coming so readily showed that she was a trifle too willing; but on reflection it occured to me, that she might have been prevailed on by her married sister to come, without any thing concerning me ever having been mentioned to her; and so I concluded that if no other objection presented itself, I would consent to wave this. All this occured upon my hearing of her arrival in the neighbourhood; for, be it remembered, I had not yet seen her, except about three years previous, as before mentioned. In a few days we had an interview, and although I had seen her before, she did not look as my immagination had pictured her. I knew she was over-size, but she now appeared a fair match for Falstaff; I knew she was called an ``old maid'', and I felt no doubt of the truth of at least half of the appelation; but now, when I beheld her, I could not for my life avoid thinking of my mother; and this, not from withered features, for her skin was too full of fat, to permit its contracting in to wrinkles; but from her want of teeth, weather-beaten appearance in general, and from a kind of notion that ran in my head, that nothing could have commenced at the size of infancy, and reached her present bulk in less than thirtyfive or forty years; and, in short, I was not all pleased with her. But what could I do? I had told her sister that I would take her for better or for worse; and I made a point of honor and conscience in all things, to stick to my word, especially if others had been induced to act on it, which in this case, I doubted not they had, for I was now fairly convinced, that no other man on earth would have her, and hence the conclusion that they were bent on holding me to my bargain. Well, thought I, I have said it, and, be consequences what they may, it shall not be my fault if I fail to do it. At once I determined to consider her my wife; and this done, all my powers of discovery were put to the rack, in search of perfections in her, which might be fairly set-off against her defects. I tried to immagine she was handsome, which, but for her unfortunate corpulency, was actually true. Exclusive of this, no woman that I have seen, has a finer face. I also tried to convince myself, that the mind was much more to be valued than the person; and in this, she was not inferior, as I could discover, to any with whom I had been acquainted. Shortly after this, without attempting to come to any positive understanding with her, I set out for Vandalia, where and when you first saw me. During my stay there, I had letters from her, which did not change my opinion of either her intelect or intention; but on the contrary, confirmed it in both. All this while, although I was fixed ``firm as the surge repelling rock'' in my resolution, I found I was continually repenting the rashness, which had led me to make it. Through life I have been in no bondage, either real or immaginary from the thraldom of which I so much desired to be free. After my return home, I saw nothing to change my opinion of her in any particular. She was the same and so was I. I now spent my time between planing how I might get along through life after my contemplated change of circumstances should have taken place; and how I might procrastinate the evil day for a time, which I really dreaded as much---perhaps more, than an irishman does the halter. After all my suffering upon this deeply interesting subject, here I am, wholly unexpectedly, completely out of the ``scrape''; and I now want to know, if you can guess how I got out of it. Out clear in every sense of the term; no violation of word, honor or conscience. I dont believe you can guess, and so I may as well tell you at once. As the lawyers say, it was done in the manner following, towit. After I had delayed the matter as long as I thought I could in honor do, which by the way had brought me round into the last fall, I concluded I might as well bring it to a consumation without further delay; and so I mustered my resolution, and made the proposal to her direct; but, shocking to relate, she answered, No. At first I supposed she did it through an affectation of modesty, which I thought but ill-become her, under the peculiar circumstances of her case; but on my renewal of the charge, I found she repeled it with greater firmness than before. I tried it again and again, but with the same success, or rather with the same want of success. I finally was forced to give it up, at which I verry unexpectedly found myself mortified almost beyond endurance. I was mortified, it seemed to me, in a hundred different ways. My vanity was deeply wounded by the reflection, that I had so long been too stupid to discover her intentions, and at the same time never doubting that I understood them perfectly; and also, that she whom I had taught myself to believe no body else would have, had actually rejected me with all my fancied greatness; and to cap the whole, I then, for the first time, began to suspect that I was really a little in love with her. But let it all go. I'll try and out live it. Others have been made fools of by the girls; but this can never be with truth said of me. I most emphatically, in this instance, made a fool of myself. I have now come to the conclusion never again to think of marrying; and for this reason; I can never be satisfied with any one who would be block-head enough to have me. When you receive this, write me a long yarn about something to amuse me. Give my respects to Mr. Browning. Your sincere friend Mrs. O. H. Browning. A. LINCOLN

Agreement and Note Drawn for James M. Crain
April 20, 1838
Whereas John T. Stuart and Abraham Lincoln have engaged as attorneys in my behalf in a cause now pending in the chancery side of the Tazewell county circuit court in which I am complainant and the heirs of Lewis F. Crain deceased and others are defendants, therefore if I shall succeed to the full extent of my claim in said case, I promise to pay them, the said Stuart & Lincoln the sum of five hundred dollars; but if I should not succeed in the recovery of the property mentioned in said cause as having been purchased of Peter Menard; but shall succeed in the recovery of all the ballance claimed in said cause, then I promise to pay them the said Stuart & Lincoln the sum of three hundred dollars--- April 20. 1838--- JAMES M. CRAIN Tremont, April 20. 1838 Six months after date I promise to pay Stuart & Lincoln twentyfive dollars for value received--- JAS. M. CRAIN

Bill Rendered to Sangamon County
[June 18, 1838]
The county of Sangamon. To Stuart & Lincoln Dr. To furnishing room for Grand an[d] Petit Juries at July & October terms of 1837---and March term of 1838. $36.00.

Bond for Charles R. Matheny
[June 18, 1838]
Know all men by these presents that we Charles R. Matheny, William Butler, Abner Y. Ellis, A. Lincoln are held and firmly bound unto the County Commissioners of the County of Sangamon and State of Illinois for the use of any person or persons injured, or for the use of the said County if injured in the penal sum of one thousand dollars the payment of which will and truly to be made we bind ourselves, our heirs and assigns, jointly severally and firmly by these persons signed, sealed and dated this 18 day of June A.D. 1838. The Condition of the above obligation is such that whereas the above bounden Charles R. Matheny has been duly elected Clerk of the said County Commissioners Court. Now if he the said Charles R. Matheny shall faithfully perform the duties of said office assigned by laws therein the above obligation to be void otherwise to remain in full force and effect. C.R. MATHENY (seal) WILLIAM BUTLER (seal) ABNER Y. ELLIS (seal) A. LINCOLN (seal) State of Illinois  Sangamon County

To Jesse W. Fell
Dear Fell. [July 23, 1838]
Yours on the reverse side of this sheet  is this moment received. Owing to my absence, the former letter of which you speak was not received until Saturday evening. I answered it yesterday,  and doubtless you will have received the answer ere you receive this. I again repeat that you may deny the charges made by Douglass against Stuart in relation to a government Bank. I hope Stuart will pay you the much deserved visit; he is, however, doing well, we are told, where he is. If we do our duty we shall succeed in the congressional election, but if we relax an iota , we shall be beaten. Your friend A. LINCOLN ALS-DLC

To Joseph Duncan
To Springfield 25 July 1838.
His Excellency Joseph Duncan Having learned that a vacancy has occured in the board of Commissioners of public works---by the resignation of J. W. Stephenson We take much pleasure in recommending to your favorable consideration for the vacancy thus created our fellow citizen John Dickson  of Ogle county whom we consider in every way fully qualified to discharge the duties of the office Jesse B. Thomas Jr 	C R Matheny 	G. Elkin J. Wright, Comr. 	A.G. Herndon 	A. Lincoln Pub. Works. 	N. W. Edwards 	Gershom Jayne J. F. Speed 	Th C Browne Simeon Francis 	William Butler 	A. G. Henry 

Inventory of Notes Due Estate of George Spears
September 3, 1838
The following is a correct list or inventory of the notes due the estate of George Spears sen: deceased---viz--- John Pemberton & T. J. Nance 	$ 50 Joshua Nance & John M. Bingley 	``24 Jacob Bale & Benjamin Gibbs 	200 Jacob Bale & Levi Summers 	30 Jacob Bale & James Goldsby 	45 Jacob Bale & Levi Summers 	50 James Goldsby & Levi Summers 	80 ----- $479 Also, one note paid 	20 ----- ``499 [In addition to the above collected Interest 	60 ----- $559]  Sept. 3. 1838. GEORGE SPEARS JR. Executor of George Spears Sen. decd.

Draft Prepared for James Wright
Mr. Robert Allen: September 6, 1838
Please pay Stuart & Lincoln five dollars, and charge to [James Wright] Sept. 6th. 1838. [Capt. Ransdell will pay the above order R. Allen] 

Petition for Appointment of Antrim Campbell as Prosecuting Attorney
[September 13, 1838]
We the undersigned do hereby certify that Antrim Campbell has been engaged in the practice of the Law in Springfield for eight months last past and from our knowledge of his character do believe him in every respect worthy of confidence and esteem, and we do also cheerfully recommend him to his Excellency Joseph Duncan Governor of the State of Illinois as fully qualified and competent to fulfill the duties of Prosecuting Attorney and would be much pleased to see him get the appointment to said office Stephen T. Logan 	Saml. H. Treat E. D. Baker 	J. Hewett John T. Stuart 	A Lincoln Ninian W. Edwards 	Cyrus Walker

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Resolutions Asking Information on Railroad and Fund Commissioners
December 8, 1838
Mr. HARDIN  of Morgan, asked that certain resolutions presented by him on Monday, asking for detailed information upon every subject connected with the duties of the Rail road and Fund Commissioners, should be taken up. Several amendments were offered to the resolution which were agreed to. Mr. LINCOLN in reference to the resolutions said, that so far as he understood their object it was not an unfriendly one towards the Internal Improvement system. His own course was identified with the system. We had gone too far to recede, even if we were disposed to do so. He wished the resolution might pass, so as to enable the friends of the system to detect any errors which might be found in its prosecution, so as to prevent their recurrence.

Discussion in Illinois LegislatureRegarding an Act Concerning Judgments and Executions
December 13, 1838
Upon the question shall the resolution  pass---ayes and nays called for---before being taken Lincoln rose and said that he hoped the resolution would pass, as it merely proposed an inquiry into the expediency of amending the law---or an examination into the fact whether the present law was defective. The resolution was amended by striking out the word ``repealing'' and inserting the word ``amended.'' Mr. Baker then spoke in opposition to the resolution on ground that it would give too much power to the creditor over those who are struggling to secure their homes. He was also opposed to this constant spirit of innovation. Mr. Lincoln replied that he or Baker were mistaken, and explained his view of the proposed alteration. Under the present law, he said, few appeared at the sale of property, and the judgment creditor usually bids it in at half its value. The owner supposed that he would be able to redeem, but was frequently unable, and his property was thus sacrificed under the operation of this law. Baker admitted this true.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislature to Limit Justices of the Peace and Constables
[December 14, 1838]
A bill for an act limiting Justices of the Peace and constables to their several Districts respectively. SEC. 1  Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly, that hereafter it shall not be lawful for any Justice of the Peace to issue any civil process to be served on any person in a different District from that in which such Justice shall reside, except in cases where the cause of action on which process is issued shall have accrued in the District where such Justice shall reside and the person against whom it shall issue shall reside in a different one. SEC: 2. That hereafter no constable shall serve any civil process, issued by a Justice of the Peace unless the same shall have been issued by a Justice residing in the same District with such constable.

Remarks in Illinois Legislature on Election of House Members to Office
December 21, 1838
Mr. Lincoln moved its  reference to the committee on Internal Improvements. Mr. Smith of Wabash, and Mr. Thornton, both seemed to regard this as a direct attack on them. They were members of this committee, interested in the decision; and they would not allow the insinuation. They would hold the gentleman from Sangamon responsible, &c, &c. Mr. Lincoln replied, he did not move the reference with any such design as had been attributed to him. He had always been the friend of both the gentlemen; and at the last extra session he had voted against such a proposition, because his friend from Wabash was personally interested then in the decision, being at that time in the employ of the State. But he would now assure the gentlemen, that the proposition to refer did not originate with him. He was requested to make the motion by one of their especial friends, and a member of the same committee, viz: the gentleman from Perry (Mr. Murphy,) and to oblige him he had made the motion. But he was glad he had made it; the hydra was exposed; and all the talk about settling this matter at another tribunal, he had no objection to, if gentlemen insisted on it. He was always ready, and never shrunk from responsibility.

Additional Rule of the House of Representatives of Illinois
[January 4, 1839]
No bill shall be referred or amended after its engrossment for the third reading, without the consent of two-thirds of the members present.

Additional Rules Adopted by the House of Representatives of Illinois
[January 5, 1839]
Rule --- No Bill shall be committed or amended on the question of its passage, except by the consent of two thirds of all the members present Rule --- When any petition remonst[r]ance or claim is presented by a member and such member may not desire its reading, he may make the motion to dispense with its reading and ask its refer[e]nce at the time of presentation---and the chair may consider the motion as agreed to, unless some member should object and so state to the House

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Resolutions in Relation to Fugitive Slaves
January 5, 1839
Mr Lincoln, on the first reading of the resolutions, had inclined to vote in favor of concurring; but upon the second, he felt that he wanted more time for deliberation. He now thought it would be better to postpone the subject indefinitely; and accordingly, made a motion to this effect.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Appropriation for Building the State House
January 7, 1839
Mr Lincoln said, that as the Hon. Speaker  had confined his remarks to the expensiveness of the work under consideration, he would not wander from this point himself. And, indeed, it was unnecessary to say much upon that subject; for he believed that the majority would agree, that if the work was to be done [at] all, it had best be well done; that is, in a manner creditable to the State. He felt perfectly willing to submit the question to the House, without saying one word more.  Mr. Lincoln, in reply, contended that the people of 1840 would have no better right to decide the question, than the people of 1839. True, the inhabitants of Vandalia had a right to retain the seat of government here twenty years, according to the provisions of the Constitution; but, on the other hand, if the people of Illinois at large had found that they had a hard bargain, they have a right to get out of it as soon as they can. Has not the corporation of Springfield faithfully performed her part of the contract? Two thirds of the stipulated sum is paid; and for the other third which is not paid, the bonds of twenty-five responsible men are put forward, which may be sued at any time, and are perfectly secure, so far as the interest of the State is involved. He could not say, indeed, with his colleague, that he considered the faith of the State as pledged to complete the State House at Springfield; but wished that work to go on, and that place to be made the permanent seat of government; because it was the place of his residence, and because he really believed that the people would thus be best accommodated. True, when the question of a Capitol was formerly submitted to the people at large, Springfield did not receive the highest number of votes; but this can furnish no evidence that if the question were now a second time submitted to the same tribunal, Springfield would not have a larger vote than any other point. As to making money by locating the Capitol in some new place, and selling the lots of a city that is to be , he would simply ask how much money had been made, and how many State Houses had been built out of the land received here in Vandalia, as a donation from the General Government? Depend upon it, the idea of realizing such immense sums of money in this way, is all an illusion. As for the unconstitutionality of agitating this question at present, he hardly expected that those who bring forward a series of plans, of the same general nature with this now in progress at Springfield, would throw upon their opponents this charge; for each and all of these is equally unconstitutional.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Establish the Counties of Menard, Logan, and Dane
[January 16-19, 1839]
A bill for an act to establish the counties of Menard, Logan and Dane. SEC. 1st. Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly that all that tract of country lying within the following boundaries to wit; Beginning at the North West corner of Section Twentyseven in Township Seventeen North of Range Eight West of the Third Principal Meridian; thence East to the centre of the Southern boundary of Section Twentyfour, in Township Seventeen North of Range Seven West; thence North to the middle of the Northern boundary of said section; thence East to the middle of the Northern boundary of Section Nineteen in Township Seventeen North of Range Six West; thence North to the centre of Section Eighteen, Township and Range last aforesaid; thence East to the middle of the Eastern boundary line of said section; thence North to the channel of Rock Creek; thence down the channel of Rock Creek to where the Northern boundary line of section Nine, Township and Range last aforesaid, crosses the same; thence East to the South West corner of Section Two, Township & Range last aforesaid; thence North to the South East corner of Section Twentyseven in Township Eighteen North, Range aforesaid; thence East to the South East corner of Section Thirty in Township Eighteen North Range Four West; thence North to the South East corner of Section Eighteen in Township Nineteen North Range last aforesaid; thence West to the line between Ranges Four & Five; thence North to the Northern boundary line of Sangamon county; thence West with said line to the Illinois river; thence with the present boundary lines of Sangamon county to the place of begining, shall form and constitute the county of Menard. SEC: 2nd. That all that tract of country lying within the following boundaries, towit; Begining at the North West corner of Township Twenty North of Range Four West; thence South to the South West corner of Section Eighteen, in Township Nineteen North of Range aforesaid; thence East one mile; thence South to the South East corner of the county of Menard; thence East to the line dividing Ranges Three and Four; thence South to the South West corner of Section Seven Township Seventeen North of Range Three West;  thence East to the Eastern boundary line of Sangamon county; thence with the present boundary lines of Sangamon county to the place of begining shall constitute the county of Logan. SEC: 3rd. That all that tract of country lying within the following boundaries, towit; Begining where the Third Principal Meridian crosses the North Fork of the Sangamon river; thence down said river to the line between Sections Nine & Ten in Township Fifteen North of Range Three West; thence South to the South East corner of Section Four in Township Fourteen North Range last aforesaid; thence West three miles by the surveys; thence South three miles by the surveys; thence West three miles by the surveys; thence South to the Southern boundary of Township Eleven, Range last aforesaid; thence East with the surveys to the Third Principal Meridian; thence North to the place of begining shall constitute the county of Dane. SEC: 4th. That Benjamin Mitchell of Tazewell county, John Henry of Morgan county, Newton Walker of Fulton county Richard O. Wariner  of Montgomery county, and Achilles Morris of Sangamon county be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to locate the seats of Justice of the counties of Menard and Dane. Said commissioners, or a majority of them shall meet at Petersburg in Menard county on the first monday of May next, or within twenty days thereafter, and after being first duly sworn by some one authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties imposed on them by this act, shall proceed to explore said county, and to locate the seat of Justice thereof with a view to present and future population; which location, when made, shall be and remain the Seat of Justice of the county of Menard.*  SEC: 5th. Said commissioners, or a majority of them, shall meet at such place within the county of Dane as may be agreed on by them, and at such time as they may agree upon not exceeding twenty days after they shall have located the seat of justice of Menard county, and shall then and there proceed to make the location of the seat of justice of the said county of Dane, in all respects conformably with the fourth section of this act. SEC: 6th. Said commissioners shall make out a certificate of the location of the seat of justice of each of the said counties of Menard and Dane, stating what tract of land, and what part of the tract each location is made upon; which certificates shall be signed by the said commissioners, and filed in the office of the clerk of the county commissioner's court of Sangamon county, and shall be evidence of the said locations respectively. SEC 7th. Neither of said locations shall be made on private property unless the owner thereof shall either convey to the county, twenty acres of land, having the location at or near the centre thereof, or donate in money, to be applied to the erection of public buildings, the sum of three thousand dollars. SEC: 8th. That Charles Emmerson of Macon county, Chenney Thomas of McLean county and Charles R. Matheny of Sangamon county, be, and they are hereby appointed commissioners to locate the seat of justice of Logan county; and who, or a majority of whom, shall, in all respects, perform their duties in the manner that the commissioners for the location of the county seats of the counties of Menard & Dane, are by this act required to do, and shall meet at the town of Postville in said county of Logan, on the first monday of May next, or within twenty days thereafter for the purpose of performing the same; and such location when so made, shall be and remain the seat of justice of the said county of Logan until the end of the session of the General Assembly in the year 1841. SEC: 9th Each of said commissioners named in this act, shall receive out of the county treasuries respectively for which he may have served, such per diem allowance, as shall be paid the members of the present General Assembly. SEC: 10th. An election shall be held on the first monday of April next in each of the counties established by this act, to elect for each of said counties, one Sheriff, one Coroner, one Recorder, one county surveyor, three county commissioners, one clerk of the county commissioner's court, and one Probate Justice of the Peace, who shall hold their offices until the next succeeding general election, and until their successors are elected and qualified; which elections shall be conducted in all respects agreeably to the law regulating elections. Said elections shall be held in the county of Menard, at Petersburg, Sugar-Grove, Huron, and Lynchburg; in the county of Logan, at at [ sic ] Postville and Pulaski; in the county of Dane, at Buck-Heart Grove, Allenton, and the house of John Durbin, and shall be held by the judges heretofore appointed by the authority of Sangamon county for those precincts respectively, provided, that where any place named in this act for holding said election, has not heretofore been an election precinct, the electors meeting there may choose their own judges and clerks, who shall be qualified according to law previous to entering upon the discharge of their duties. SEC: 11th. The judges of elections, shall deliver to each officer elected a certificate of his election. The poll books shall be retained by them until the clerks of the county commissioner's courts, shall respectively be qualified, and then deliver such poll-books of each county to it's own clerk, who shall make and transmit to the Secretary of State an abstract of the votes given at such election in the same time, manner and form as is required of clerks of county commissioners courts in elections in other counties of this state. SEC: 12th. The said counties hereby established shall be attached to, and form part of the first judicial circuit. SEC: 13th The county of Menard shall be entitled to one representative in the General Assembly & the counties of Logan and Dane together one, the county of Sangamon, five, and the four together two senators; and, in case any vacancy shall occur previous to the next election, the four counties shall vote together to fill said vacancy in the same manner as if no division had taken place. SEC: 14th. All bussiness now pending in the Sangamon circuit court, or which shall be commenced therein previous to the organization of the counties hereby established, shall be determined therein, as if no new counties had been established; and the sheriff of Sangamon county is hereby authorized to perform all duties within the boundaries of the said new counties, which may be necessary for the finishing of the aforesaid bussiness.  SEC: 15th. The judges of the several election precincts within the aforesaid counties shall meet at the several places herein after named on the second day after said election to compare their respective polls---in the county of Menard, at the town of Petersburg; in the county of Logan at the town of Pulaski; in the county of Dane, at the town of Allenton. 1st. Amend the bill by striking out the names of Richard O. Warrener, and Achilles Morris wherever they occur. 2nd. amend the 14th. section by adding thereto the following towit: ``and for the collection of the taxes already assessed. All bussiness now pending in the courts of the Justices of the Peace, or of the Probate Justice of the Peace, of Sangamon county, or which shall be commenced therein, previous to the organization of the new counties hereby established, shall be finished by said justices and their constables as though no division had taken place'' Amend by adding as a 16th Section the following: ``The Justices of the Peace and constables now in office for Sangamon county, who reside in the boundaries of the new counties hereby established, shall continue in office in their respective new counties so long as they would have done if no division had taken place'' *Amend the 4th. section by adding the following proviso ``Provided that if the said commissioners shall locate the seat of Justice of Menard county on the West or left side of the Sangamon river, then, and in that case, the lines of said county shall be changed as follows, towit: (Begining  at the South West corner of section thirty four in Township Eighteen North of Range Six West; thence North ( two ) miles) by the surveys; thence East with the surveys to the Eastern boundary line of said county as described in this act; thence with the before described boundaries throughout. Provided further, that said commissioner's [ sic ] in making the location of the seat of Justice of said county, shall pay no regard whatever, to the above contemplated change of lines.[''] Amend the Second Section in the 9th. line by inserting between the words West and thence---The following Thence east to the North east corner of Section fifteen township last afforesaid, thence South one Mile  Amend the amendment of the Senate by striking out all from the word ``Begining'' to the word ``miles'' both inclusive, and insert the following---``Begining at the South West corner of Section Three in Township Seventeen North of Range Six West; thence North four miles'' 

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Resolutions in Relation to Purchase of Public Lands
January 17, 1839
Mr. LINCOLN thought the resolutions ought to be seriously considered. In reply to the gentleman from Adams,  he said that it was not to enrich the State. The price of the lands may be raised, it was thought by some, by others that it would be reduced. The conclusion in his mind was that the Representatives in this Legislature from the country in which the lands lie would be opposed to raising the price, because it would operate against the settlement of the lands. He referred to the lands in the military tract. They had fallen into the hands of large speculators in consequence of the low price. He was opposed to a low price of land. He thought it was adverse to the interests of the poor settler, because speculators buy them up. He was opposed to a reduction of the price of public lands. Mr. L. referred to some official documents emanating from Indiana, and compared the progressive population of the two States. Illinois had gained upon that State under the public land system as it is. His conclusion was that ten years from this time Illinois would have no more public land unsold than Indiana now has. He referred also to Ohio. That State had sold nearly all her public lands. She was but 20 years ahead of us, and as our lands were equally saleable, more so as he maintained, we should have no more 20 years from now than she has at present. Mr. L. referred to the canal lands, and supposed that the policy of the State would be different in regard to them, if the Representatives from that section of country could themselves choose the policy, but the Representatives from other parts of the State had a veto upon it, and regulated the policy. He thought that if the State had all the lands, the policy of the Legislature would be more liberal to all sections. He refered to the policy of the General Government. He thought that if the national debt had not been paid, the expenses of the Government would not have doubled, as they had done since that debt was paid.  Mr. Lincoln said, that the arguments in favor of the plan now under consideration were briefly summed up in his report. He looked upon it as a hopeful means of meeting the burdens of government, and providing a future revenue for sustaining our system of Internal Improvement. Admit that the price of lands is not thus diminished ; nay, admit that it is somewhat enhanced above that, at which the State may purchase them of the General Government, still, we shall gain this advantage---to keep these lands out of the grasp of speculators. Wherever lands are sold low, they invariably fall into the hands of the rich. Were the public lands to be put down to-day to the price of 50 cents an acre, speculators would get the best of them before the poor man could get the news. The question put by the gentleman from Morgan (Mr. Hardin) goes upon the supposition that we shall make a bad bargain with the General Government. But the plan is based upon the expectation of purchasing these lands at a reasonable rate. Illinois has some ten millions of unsold lands. Let us see what light we can obtain on this subject from Indiana and Ohio. Now, Indiana had, last year, only about four millions and one half of acres unsold; and Ohio, only about one million and three quarters. But Illinois is only 20 years younger than Ohio, and 10 years younger than Indiana; we may therefore conclude, that this State will in ten years have not more than 4 1/2 millions of acres remaining unsold; in twenty years, not more than 1 3/4 millions; and in this case, on the supposition that Illinois should now buy up all the lands, at a reduced price, she will have made a first rate bargain. Now, the resources of the State must be husbanded. Economy is to be the order of the day. We must find some new sources of revenue. We need them, and shall need them, for many years to come. Our system of Internal Improvement requires them. The public debt is already enormous, and is augmenting every day. ``This is the principal reason'' said Mr. Lincoln in conclusion, ``why I have persevered in opposition to the views of many of the committee, in bringing this subject before the House.''

Discussion in Illinois Legislatureof Resolution Relative to Public Depositories
January 17, 1839
Mr. Lincoln said if partiality shall be proven to exist, shall we say it does? or shall we rather use another word, which will not express our meaning, for fear we offend our MASTER; for his part, he wanted to call things by their right names, no matter who was offended. There had been partiality; it was proven by the Secretary's report, and he believed we would be more thought of, if we said so, especially as it could not be denied. Mr LINCOLN said, he would be willing that the word partiality should be stricken out if he thought it was not true. The Legislature would be more respected by the Government if it used plain language, whenever that language is true. Mr L. then summed up the arguments which had passed, and contended that the position was fully made out that the Government had been partial. He was willing to take the gentleman from Vermilion  by the hand. He says that by our course we strike our own party friends. Well, we are willing to go it. Let him do the same with his party friends. Gentlemen insist that they cannot pass on these resolutions without investigation. He had heard similar arguments often made to put off trial in court. 

Report and Resolutions Introducedin Illinois Legislature in Relation to Purchase of Public Lands
January 17, 1839
The Committee on Finance, to which was referred a resolution of this House instructing them to inquire into the expediency of proposing to purchase of the Government of the United States all the unsold lands lying within the limits of the State of Illinois, have had the same under consideration, and report: That, in their opinion, if such purchase could be made on reasonable terms, two objects of high importance to the State might thereby be effected---first, acquire control over all the territory within the limits of the State---and, second, acquire an important source of revenue. We will examine these two points in their order, and with special reference to their bearing upon our internal improvement system. In the first place, then, we are now so far advanced in a general system of internal improvements that, if we would, we cannot retreat from it, without disgrace and great loss. The conclusion then is, that we must advance; and if so, the first reason for the State acquiring title to the public lands is, that while we are at great expense in improving the country, and thereby enhancing the value of all the real property within its limits, that enhancement may attach exclusively to property owned by ourselves as a State, or to its citizens as individuals, and not to that owned by the Government of the United States. Again, it is conceded every where, as we believe, that Illinois surpasses every other spot of equal extent upon the face of the globe, in fertility of soil, and in the proportionable amount of the same which is sufficiently level for actual cultivation; and consequently that she is endowed by nature with the capacity of sustaining a greater amount of agricultural wealth and population than any other equal extent of territory in the world. To such an amount of wealth and population, our internal improvement system, now so alarming, in view of its having to be borne by our present numbers, and with our present means, would be a burden of no sort of consequence. How important, then, is it that all our energies should be exerted to bring that wealth and population among us as speedily as possible. But what, it may be asked, can the ownership of the land by the State do towards the accomplishment of that desirable object? It may be answered that the chief obstruction to the more rapid settlement of our country is found in the fact that so much of our best lands lie so remote from timber---an obstruction that, did our State but own those lands, our Legislature might do much towards removing, by extending encouragement in the shape of donations, exemptions from ordinary burdens, or otherwise, to the rearing and cultivating of timber, or to the invention of means of building and enclosure that might dispense with the present profuse use of timber. This, then, is another reason why the State should desire the control of all the lands within its limits. Looking to these lands in the second point of view, to wit: as a source of revenue, your committee submit the following: There are now of unsold lands in the State of Illinois, twenty millions of acres, more or less. Should we purchase all of them, at 25 cents per acre, they would cost us five millions of dollars. This sum we might borrow, and the proceeds of the sales of the lands, at the present price of $1 25 per acre, would repay the principal, together with the interest thereon, at five per cent. for thirty years, and one half the lands still be left us. In a very short time we shall have contracted a very heavy debt for the construction of public works; and yet those works will remain for a time so incomplete as to return us nothing; meanwhile the interest upon our debt must be paid. When this juncture shall arrive (as surely it will) we shall find ourselves at a point which may aptly be likened to the dead point in the steam-engine---a point extremely difficult of turning---but which, when once turned, will present no further difficulty, and all will again be well. The aid that we might derive in that particular juncture , by the purchase of the public lands, affords, in the opinion of the committee, the strongest reason for making that purchase. The annual proceeds of the sales of those lands, should the subsequent sales bear any proportion to those of former times, will pay the interest on the loan created for their own purchase, and also upon many millions of our internal improvement loans; and that, too, at that particular time when we shall have but very small, if any other, means of paying it. And finally, when our public works shall be completed, and consequently able to sustain themselves, the proceeds of the sales of the lands may be diverted to the payment of the original debt contracted for the purchase of them. To show that we are not mistaken in saying that the proceeds of the sales of the lands will annually pay the interest on their own loan, and also on a large amount of the internal improvement loan, it is only necessary to state that the interest on the land loan would be but five hundred thousand dollars, annually, and that the proceeds of the sales of the public lands in this State have, in one instance, been about three millions a year (the committee speak from memory only;) so that, should the average of the subsequent sales be half as large, we still should have left one million annually, to pay interest on our internal improvement debt. The only remaining question is, whether there is any probability of the General Government accepting such a proposal. We think there are some reasons for believing it would. It would relieve the General Government from the perpetual source of expensive and vexatious legislation, which, perhaps, annually absorbs one-tenth of all it receives from that source of revenue. She would receive of us, at once, and without trouble, five millions of dollars---a sum one-third part as large as she paid a foreign government for the Louisiana territory, then including what are now the States of Louisiana, Arkansas, and Missouri---and receive it, too, after having received of us, for lands already sold, a sum equal to the whole sum paid for the Louisiana territory; and she would receive that five millions of dollars at a time when she is in most particular need of money. But should your committee be mistaken; should there be no probability of the General Government accepting our proposal, still, it is believed no evil can follow the making it. The committee, therefore, submit the following resolutions:  Resolved by the General Assembly of the State of Illinois that the said State propose to purchase of the government of the United States, all the lands not sold or otherwise disposed of, within the limits of said State, at the rate of twentyfive cents per acre, to be paid (unless otherwise agreed upon) at such time, as the said Government of the United States, shall deliver over to the authorities of the said State of Illinois, all the plats, Field notes &c. &c. pertaining to the surveys of said lands. Resolved, that the faith of the said State of Illinois is hereby irrevocably pledged, to carry into effect the foregoing proposal, if the Government of the United States shall accept the same within two years from the passage hereof. Resolved, that our Senators in Congress be instructed and our Representatives requested, to use their best exertions to procure the passage of a law or resolution of Congress accepting the foregoing proposal. Resolved, that the Governor be requested to transmit a copy of the foregoing resolutions to each of our Senators and Representatives in Congress. 

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Appointment of Members of Legislature to Federal Office
January 25, 1839
Mr. Lincoln would not like to see the abstract question of right to a seat in this legislature blinded with any personal interests. He should therefore vote against laying the resolution on the table till the 4th of July; and if this motion were lost, he would move to lay it on the table---with the intention of letting it lie there till near the close of the session; when it could be taken up without wearing the appearance of being a personal attack.

Letter Written for Edward D. Baker to William Butler
Wm Butler Esq Sir Vandalia, Jany. 26. 1839
Yours of the 22nd. is duly received. Are you not ashamed of writing such a letter as that? If you believe the charges you make to be true, I say most flatly you are a fool. If you do not believe them, I do not see the necessity of your making them; they are not the sort of jokes that I Incline tamely to take. This is a short letter, but it is longer than one having so little truth, or reason or justice as yours, deserves as an answer. Yours with all proper respect. E. D. BAKER

To William Butler
Dear Butler: Vandalia, Jany. 26- 1839
Your letter of the 21st. Inst. is just received. You were in an ill-humor when you wrote that letter, and, no doubt, intended that I should be thrown into one also; which, however, I respectfully decline being done. All you have said about our having been bought up by Taylor, Wright, Turley,  enemies &c I know you would not say, seriously, in your moments of reflection ; and therefore I do not think it worth while to attempt seriously to prove the contrary to you. I only now say, that I am willing to pledge myself in black and white to cut my own throat from ear to ear, if, when I meet you, you shall seriously say, that you believe me capable of betraying my friends for any price. The grounds of your complaint I will answer seriously. First, then, as to Athens. We have Allen's  letter of which you speak; and although, he did not in that letter, pretend that he was specially authorized to speak for the people of Athens, he did pretend , that he knew their feelings, and that he fairly expressed them. And further; Hall & Francis  of Athens are now here, and I assure you, they say nothing about ``giving us hell''. They are as good-humored as I ever saw them. About Cowardin's  county. We passed the bill through the House with the lines precisely as Cowardin himself agreed they should pass. After Cowardin left, Turley insisted on having the Buffalo Heart Grove, insisting that the people of that Grove desired to go in the new county. We knew they desired no such thing; and to get rid of Turley's importunity, we promised him, that if he would get a majority of the people of the Grove to petition to go to the new county, we would let him have it. We immediately notified the people of the Grove of this promise; and we, on yesterday received a pe[ti]tion praying that the Grove may remain in the old county; and signed by every citizen in the grove but two; so that the grove neither is nor will be struck off to the new county. The lines, and every thing pertaining to that county are now, and will remain just as Cowardin agreed they should be. Wherein, then, has Cowardin, been betrayed, or your pledges to him violated? Again; as to the Allenton county.  You know that we could not control the teritory proposed to be taken from Shelby & Montgomery counties. You complain that we run too far West. The justification for this is, that we could not get the teritory from Montgomery in any other shape, the legislature, recognizing the right of the member from that county, to divide the same as he pleased. And as to the part to be taken from Shelby, that, we could not get at all, Thornton,  refusing perem[p]torily to let his county be divided, or curtailed in any way. Since the bill passed the House, Frink  has been here (and here let me say, he is not half as mad as you would make us think) and obtained a pledge from Thornton, that if he can get a majority of Shelby county consenting to the curtailment he desires, he, Thornton, will go for it. Frink has gone to Shelby, to get petitioners, and the probability is, that we will yet be able to get from Shelby what Allenton desires. Nothing could do more credit to your heart, than the mortification you express at seeing the friends with whom you acted in getting up the remonstrance disappointed; but surely you ought not to blame us for being unable to accomplish impossibilities. My respects to Mrs. Butler & Salome.  Your friend in spite of your ill-nature LINCOLN P.S. Judge Stone is here, and I am about to get him to help me about your Clerk-fee appropriation. 

To William Butler
Friend Butler: Vandalia, Jany. 31th. 1839
I have just time before the bearer of this starts, to say that I want you to send me the amount of your claim for old State Bank fees. I can not find the old bill that Stone  introduced. You have heard before this, that we have passed Anti-Sub-Treasury resolutions thro' both Houses. Yesterday the Loco Focos, took it into their heads that they would contend that Senate had amended the resolutions, and then the House had a right to try the whole question over again. We commenced the fight at 9. A.M. and kept it up most fiercely till after candle-light, when on taking the final vote, we beat them again 46 to 43. LINCOLN

To William Butler
Friend Butler: Vandalia, Feb: 1. 1839
Your letter enclosing one to Mr. Baker, was received on yesterday evening.  There is no necessity for any bad feeling between Baker & yourself. Your first letter to him was written while you were in a state of high excitement, and therefore ought not to have been construed as an emination of deliberate malice. Unfortunately however it reached Baker while he was writhing under a severe tooth-ache, and therefore he at that time was incapable of exercising that patience and reflection which the case required. The note he sent you was written while in that state of feeling, and for that reason I think you ought not to pay any serious regard to it. It is always magnanamous to recant whatever we may have said in passion; and when you and Baker shall have done this, I am sure there will no difficulty be left between you. I write this without Bakers knowledge; and I do it because nothing would be more painful to me than to see a difficulty between two of my most particular friends. About your dissatisfaction in relation to the South East county I will now say that I all the while laboured under a mistake. When I wrote to Frink & Murphy  that I would go for their county, I only meant that I would go for giving them a county as against Springfield & the old county; and it never occurred to me that I was pledging myself to one party of the new-county men against another, for I did not then know they were divided into parties. When I consented for the lines to approach Springfield nearer than the petition asked, I really thought I was confering a favour upon the new-county. And, by the way, if you will compare Frink's petition with the lines as they now stand, you will see that there is but three quarters of a township more taken from Sangamon county than the petition asked for; and as to the part from Montgomery, I have before told you we could not control that. No news here now. Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislaturefor Relief of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Sangamon County
[February 6, 1839]
A bill for an act for the relief of the clerk of the circuit court of Sangamon county. SEC. 1 Be it enacted by the people of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly, that whenever the clerk of the circuit court of Sangamon county shall make out a fee bill in due form of law, for services rendered by him or by his predecessor in office, as clerk, in all cases in which the president and directors of the  State Bank of Illinois were a party, so far as said services were rendered for said Bank, and for which it is, or would be liable, as such party, and shall transmit the same to the Auditor of Public Accounts, said Auditor shall issue his warrant upon the Treasury in favour of said clerk for such an amount as may be so shown to be due him. SEC: 2 Said clerk, in making out said fee-bill, shall be liable to the same penalties and forfeitures for any violation of the present law regulating fees as he would be in any other case. Amend the first section by inserting immediately before the word ``state'' in the seventh line, the word ``old'' Further amend by adding, as a third section, the following--- SEC: 3. The clerks of the circuit courts of Franklin, Fayette and Clinton counties shall be entitled to the same benefits, subject to the same pre-requisites and liabilities under this act, as the said clerk of Sangamon county.

Discussion in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Protest of Resolutions on Sub-Treasury
February 9, 1839
During the afternoon, some of the members, among whom was Mr. H. T. Pace of Jefferson, rose in his place and stated that when he signed it, he had not calculated that any other use was to be made of it than to send it to our members of Congress: but if it was to be placed on the journal . . . he would ask the privilege of expunging his name. . . Mr. Lincoln remarked, that if the gentleman from Jefferson wished to withdraw his name from that document, he for one was willing to admit it; but he would say to the member and the House, there were statements made in that document which were false and unfounded, and he would call on the authors of the protest, at the proper time, to retract. He would not deny the right of gentlemen to protest; but he would maintain his right to lay before the people a contradiction of their unfounded statements. Yet, while he wished to hold the signers of this document responsible to the people for what they had said, if the gentleman from Jefferson, or any one else, was ashamed of it, he hoped the House would permit them to withdraw their names.

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Vandalia, Feb: 14th. 1839
I have a note in Bank which falls due some time between the 20th & last of this month. Butler  stands as principal, and I as security; but I am in reality the principal. It will take between 50 & 55 dollars to renew it. Butler has more than that much money in his hands which he collected on a debt of mine since I came away. I wish you to call at the Bank, have a note filled over my name signed below, get Butler to sign it, and also to let you have the money to renew it. Ewing  wont do any thing. He is not worth a damn. Your friend A LINCOLN

Statement in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Internal Improvements
February 15, 1839
Mr Lincoln admitted that Sangamon county had received great and important benefits, at the last session of the Legislature, in return for giving support, thro' her delegation to the system of Internal Improvement ; and that though not legally bound, she is morally bound, to adhere to that system, through all time to come!

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Supplement Act Establishing Counties of Menard, Logan and Dane
[February 20, 1839]
A bill for an act supplemental to an act to establish the countries of Menard, Logan and Dane SEC: 1st. Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: that the officers to be elected under the provisions of the act to which this is supplemental shall hold their offices respectively as long after the next August election as they would do under the general law if they had been elected at said August election. SEC: 2. In all elections for a Senator or Senators in the district composed of the counties of Menard, Logan, Dane and Sangamon, the clerks of the county commissioners courts of the three first named counties, shall, within ten days after each election, return abstracts of the votes given for a Senator or Senators to the clerk of the county commissioner's court of Sangamon county, who shall, in presence of two Justices of the Peace, compare said abstracts, together with the votes given for such Senator or Senators in Sangamon county; and shall, as soon as convenient, make out, and deliver a certificate of election to the person so shown to be elected. SEC. 3. In all elections for a Representative to the General assembly, in the countries of Logan and Dane, the clerks of the county commissioner's courts of said counties shall, within ten days after each election, meet at the county seat of Logan county, and shall, in the presence of two Justices of the Peace, proceed to compare the votes given in said counties for Representative; and also to make out a certificate of election for the person so shown to be elected; which certificate shall be delivered to such person as soon thereafter as convenient. SEC: 4. Militia duty shall be performed in the counties of Menard, Logan, Dane, and Sangamon, as if no division had been made.

Resolution Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Permit Citizens to Use the Hall of Representatives
February 21, 1839
Resolved , That the use of the hall of the House of Representatives be tendered to the ladies and gentlemen resident at and visiting the town of Vandalia, on the evening of the 22d of February, instant, for the purpose of any public amusement they may choose to indulge in.

Amendments Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto an Act Dividing the State into Judicial Districts
[February 21, 1839]
Amend by striking out ``Ogle''  from the Sixth Circuit and inserting it in the ninth. Amend further by striking out the word ``first'' in the eighth line of the first section and inserting the word ``eighth''  Amend further by striking out the word ``eighth'' in the twentieth line of the first section and inserting the word ``first''

To William Butler
Dear Butler: Vandalia, Feb. 23rd. 1839
Yours of the 16th enclosing a note for my signature is duly received. I am much obliged to you for your attention to this matter. I had not myself forgotten it. Before this reaches you, you will have learned that I had already sent a blank note with my name to Stuart to fix this same bussiness.  I now sign the note you sent me, and enclose it to you. We have got a provision through the House attaching that part of Shelby to Dane county which was first petitioned for, which provision, we think will pass the Senate, as the Shelby Senator goes for it. We will adjourn on the 4th. of March. I would rather you should not be at the trouble of sending me a horse, as you kindly offered to do, in one of your former letters. I will get your clerk fee bill through, unless it shall be lost for want of time, which I some what fear. No news. Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN

Resolution Adopted by Whig Meeting in Hall of House of Representatives
February 27, 1839
Resolved , That a Committee of nine be appointed by the chair, to draft an address to the people of this State, setting forth the causes of our opposition to the present administration, and recommending all the opponents of the misrule of the government to unite upon the common platform of union and compromise. 

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Authorize a Survey Therein Named
[February 28, 1839]
Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the following--- ``That the Board of Public Works shall so soon as convenience will permit, detail a competent engineer to survey a route commencing at or near the point where the present location of the Central Rail Road crosses Drury's Creek in Jackson county; thence via Frankfort in Franklin county, Mount Vernon in Jefferson county, and Salem in Marion county to a point on the present location of the aforesaid Rail Road at or near Vandalia. Said Board shall also detail a competent engineer to survey another route between the same starting and terminating points to pass at or near the coal banks on mudy---  thence through Pinckneyville in Perry county, Nashville in Washington county, and Carlyle in Clinton county. SEC. 2. Said engineers shall make full and complete reports of the surveys of said routes respectively to the Board of Public Works; who, upon a full examination and comparison of the relative merits of the two said routes and the present location, with a view to the interest of the state, shall determine which of the three shall be the permanent location of the said Central Rail Road. SEC: 3. The provisions of this act shall be carried into effect as speedily as possible; but while the same are in progress, the work on the said Central Rail Road shall proceed as though this act had never passed.

Amendment Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto a Supplemental Act Incorporating the Beardstown and Sangamon Canal Company
[March 1, 1839]
Provided, that if said Canal shall not be commenced by the first of January 1841, the state shall have full right to the navigation of the Sangamon River.

To William S. Wait
Mr. William S. Wait: Vandalia, March 2. 1839
Sir: Your favour of yesterday was handed me by Mr. Dale.  In relation to the Revenue law, I think there is something [to] be feared from the argument you suggest, though I hope the danger is not as you apprehend. The passage of a Revenue law at this session, is right within itself; and I never despair of sustaining myself before the people upon any measure that will stand a full investigation. I presume I hardly need enter into an argument to prove to you , that our old revenue system, raising, as it did, all the state revenue from non-resident lands, and those lands rapidly decreasing , by passing into the hands of resident owners, whiles the wants of the Treasury were increasing with the increase of population, could not longer continue to answer the purpose of it's creation. That proposition is little less than self-evident. The only question is as to sustaining the change before the people. I believe it can be sustained, because it does not increase the tax upon the `` many poor '' but upon the `` wealthy few '' by taxing the land that is worth $50 or $100 per acre, in proportion to its value, insted of, as heretofore, no more than that which was worth but $5 per acre. This valuable land, as is well known, belongs, not to the poor, but to the wealthy citizen. On the other hand, the wealthy can not justly complain, because the change is equitable within itself, and also a sine qua non to a compliance with the Constitution. If, however, the wealthy should, regardless of the justness of the complaint, as men often are, when interest is involved in the question, complain of the change, it is still to be remembered, that they are not sufficiently numerous to carry the elections. Verry Respectfully A. LINCOLN

Note Written in Sangamon County Mortgage Record
April 4, 1839
We do hereby enter full satisfaction on the within mortgage this 4th April 1839 Stuart & Lincoln attorneys for the administrator  of Nicholas Sintz deceased.

Notice of a Public Meeting to Discuss the Revenue Law
April 5, 1839
FELLOW CITIZENS:---We, a portion of the Sangamon delegation learning that great disatisfaction prevails among you, relative to the New Revenue Law, ask the favor of you, to attend a public discussion of the merits and demerits of that measure, on SATURDAY the 13th APRIL. inst., at Springfield. We invite every man in the County, who opposes the Revenue Law, to come armed with all the arguments against it that he can, and we confidently believe, we will be able to show, that none of them are well founded. A. LINCOLN, A. G. HERNDON. A. McCORMIC[K], J. CALHOUN. N. W. EDWARDS. P.S. We doubt not that the remainder of the delegation will concur with us in this call; but have not had the opportunity of seeing them since we concluded to make it. April 5, 1839.

Petition to Governor Thomas Carlinfor Appointment of Joseph Duncan to Negotiate Sale of Illinois and Michigan Canal Bonds
[April 13, 1839]
The undersigned would respectfully recommend to the Governor of this State the appointment of JOSEPH DUNCAN, who is well known to have ever been an ardent and efficient friend of the Illinois and Michigan Canal, as a suitable and qualified person to negotiate the sale of the State Bonds authorised to be sold for the purpose of constructing the Illinois and Michigan Canal.

To Alexander P. Field
A. P. Field, Esq. May 11, 1839.
Dear Sir: At the late session an act passed both Houses of legislature for the benefit of the clerks of the Circuit Courts of Sangamon, Hamilton, and Fayette counties.  I can see nothing of this act in the printed laws, one copy of which has reached us. I know it passed both Houses, but I am a little suspicious it has not been duly acted on by the Council of Revision. Will you please learn and write us what condition it is in, and also send us a copy of the act? Mr. Butler  will pay the charge on sight. Your friend, A. LINCOLN.

To Nathan Dresser
Mr. Dresser: Springfield, May 30. 1839.
Enclosed are the papers to commence a suit for old man Summers against H. Sears.  You will find one of Butlers blank summons filled up by me which you can copy and it will be right in this case. It would do itself but for its having the Sangamon seal to it. Also on the other side of this sheet you find a petition for an order to have the land involved in this matter conveyed to Sears. It, together with the bond, (also enclosed) you will file & docket among your Chancery cases. No process to issue on it.

To John Rowan Herndon
Dear Row: Springfield, June 11th. 1839-
Mr. Redman  informs me that you wish me to write you the particulars of a conversation between Dr. Felix  & myself relative to you. The Dr. overtook me between Rushville and Beardstown. He, after learning that I lived at Springfield, asked if I was acquainted with you. I told him I was. He said you had lately been elected constable in Adams, but that you never would be again. I asked him why? He said the people there, had found out, that you had been Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff in Sangamon county, and that you came off and left your securities to suffer. He then asked me if I did not know such to be the fact. I told him I did not think you had ever been Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff in Sangamon; but that I thought you had been constable. I further told him that if you had left your securities to suffer in that or any other case, I had never heard of it, and that if it had been so, I thought I would have heard it. If the Dr. is telling that I told him any thing against you whatever, I authorize you to contradict it flatly. We have no news here. Your friend, as ever--- A. LINCOLN

To the Editor of the ChicagoAmerican
Mr Editor, Springfield June 24th. 1839
From present indications we have every reason to believe that Mr. Douglass  will contest the right of Mr Stuart  to a seat in Congress. We deem it a matter of great importance to the Whig party of this District that they should be prepared to meet such contest. The importance of the decision of that contest is increased by the doubt which at present exists as to which party will have the ascendency in the next Congress. In this state of uncertainty one vote may become of the utmost importance to the sustaining of those great principles for which the Whig party are now contending. To prepare ourselves for this contest and to solicit your aid in so doing by engaging your assistance in the collection of proofs to the following facts, are the objects of this communication 1st. Whether there are any mistakes for or against Mr Stuart in the addition of colum[n]s or otherwise, apparant on the face of the Poll Books of your County? 2nd. Whether any persons voted for Mr Douglass in your County who were minors , or who had not been Residents of the state six months preceeding the Election? 3rd. Whether any unnaturalized foreigners voted for Mr Douglass in your County? After you shall have examined into the preceeding questions, we will thank you to write us the result without delay together with the names of the illegal voters refered to in the two last questions: the names of the individuals by whom the fact of their illegality can be proved and the name and the residence of a Justice of the Peace before whom Depositions can be taken and a proper place to take them. When informed by you of the fact we will immediately take steps to procure the proofs. We would suggest the propriety of your consulting the political Friends you may think proper in your County and solicit their assistance in procuring the above facts: or the appointment of precinct committees as you may think the most advisable. Respectfully yours &c. Joshua F. Speed 	James H. Matheny E. D. Baker 	A. Lincoln Milton Hay N.B. Would it not be as well to keep the knowledge of this investigation as well as any discoveries you may make, confined to as few as possible P.S. Let letters on this subject, be addressed to ``Stuart & Lincoln,'' as business letters.

Affidavit Concerning Isaac Anderson's Lost Horse
State of Illinois Sangamon county} June 29, 1839
Abraham Lincoln, being first duly sworn, states on oath that he was the Captain of one of the companies [of] Illinois volunteers, on the expedition directed against the Sac & Fox Indians in the year 1832, that Isaac Anderson was a volunteer in said company, that said Anderson had a horse mustered into the service of the United States, and valued, (as affiant verrily believes, speaking from memory only, the original apraisement roll, being lost, mislaid or destroyed so that affiant, after diligent search he has not been able to find it) at fiftyfive dollars, that said horse was turned out to graze in consequence of sufficient forage not being furnished by the United states, and was thereby lost, that said horse was lost about the tenth of May 1832, and without any fault or negligence on the part of said Anderson. The army was marched from Dixons Ferry on Rock River, that being the point where said horse was lost, verry shortly after the loss of said horse. The affiant makes the above statements from memory only, but feels confident they are substantially correct. A. LINCOLN

Receipt to David Prickett
August 6, 1839
Received, Springfield, Aug: 6. 1839 of David Prickett, two hundred and fifty dollars, to be applied to the discharging of a judgement in the Sangamon circuit court against said Prickett, & in favour of the surviving partners of the firm of A. & G. W. Kerr & Co.  STUART & LINCOLN Atty. for Plffs.

To Thomas Bohannon
Mr. Thomas Bohannan Springfield, Ills. Aug: 7. 1839
Dr. Sir Yours of the 29th ult. is duly received. It was our impression that we had acknowledged the receipt of the two notes of which you speak---one being on Allen & Stone  for $117.94 the other on J. Francis  for $50.35. We now do so. We have been receiving promises from time to time of the payment of those notes, but which payment has not yet been made. Unless payment is soon made we shall commence suits; though this course we shall regret; for they are honest and honorable men, but they are hard pressed. We regret to say that the entire certainty that we shall need all the means at our command, will not, in justice to ourselves, permit us to authorize you to draw upon us as you suggest. Yours & c. STUART & LINCOLN

Note Concerning Remittance to Thomas Bohannon
October 23, 1839
I hereby certify that I on this day deposited in the Post office at this place a letter of Stuart & Lincoln directed to Messrs Thos. Bohannan & Co of Louisville Ky---enclosing $126--- Springfield, Ills. Oct. 23, 1839--- JOSHUA F. SPEED

To William Doughty
Mr. Doughty Springfield Nov. 2nd. 1839
I understand my coat was left in your possession. Will you please get a yard or so of coarse domestic (for which I will pay you the first time I see you) and fold the coat in it and tie the card herein enclosed upon it, and hand the bundle to the Stage driver on his trip towards Springfield? You will verry much oblige me by doing so. Your friend A. LINCOLN

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Springfield, Nov: 14. 1839-
I have been to the Secretary's office within the last hour; and find things precisely as you left them---no new arrivals of returns on either side. Douglass has not been here since you left. A report is in circulation here now, that he has abandoned the idea of going to Washington; though the report does not come in a verry authentic form, so far as I can learn. Though, by the way, speaking of authenticity, you know that if we had heard Douglass say that he had abandoned the contest, it would not be verry authentic. There is no news here. Noah,  I still think will be elected verry easily. I am afraid of our race for Representative. Dr. Knapp  has become a candidate; and I fear the few votes he will get will be taken from us. Also, some one has been tampering with old Esqr. Wycoff,  and induced him to send in his name to be anounced as a candidate. Francis refused to announce him without seeing him, and now I suppose there is to be a fuss about it. I have been so busy that I have not seen Mrs. Stuart since you left, though I understand she wrote you by to day's mail, which will inform you more about her than I could. The verry moment a Speaker is elected write me who he is. Your friend as ever--- A. LINCOLN

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Authorize the Collector of --- County to Collect Taxes
[December 10, 1839]
A bill for an act to authorize the Collector of county to collect certain taxes therein named. Be it enacted by the people of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly, that the collector of county be authorized to collect all taxes now due from the inhabitants of that portion of Sangamon county lying within the following bounds towit: Begining at the South West corner of Section Three in Township Seventeen North of Range Six West thence North four miles by the surveys, thence East with the surveys ten miles; thence South with the surveys two miles; thence West with the surveys nine miles; thence South with the surveys two miles; then West with the surveys one mile to the begining.

Resolutions Adopted at a Whig Meeting at Springfield
December 11, 1839
Whereas, the Van Buren State Convention, which adjourned on the 10th inst., passed various resolutions denouncing Whig individuals, Whig policy, and the Whig party in general. Therefore. Resolved , That every member of that Convention, who introduced any such resolution or resolutions, or any amendment thereto, be respectfully requested to bring the same, or a correct copy thereof, into this Hall, and to attempt to sustain it by facts and arguments. Resolved , That on the discussion of said resolutions, we will meet their authors, man for man, and speech for speech, in order that the public may see with whom are the facts, and with whom the arguments. Resolved , That for the purpose of discussing said resolutions, we will meet their authors on to-morrow evening, at 7 o'clock, P.M. [at] this Hall, or at any other time and place [which] may better suit their convenience.

To Mrs. Orville H. Browning
December 11, 1839
In tender consideration whereof we pray your Honoress, to grant your humble petitioners their above request, and such other and further relief in the premises as to your Honoress may seem right and proper. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray &c. A LINCOLN--- J J HARDIN E. B. WEBB JOHN DAWSON

Petition Written for John Bennett
December 16, 1839
To the Honorable the General Assembly of the State of Illinois--- The undersigned respectfully petitions that Blocks, two, three, four and five in Bennett's addition to the town of Petersburgh in the county of Menard be vacated. Dec. 16 1839 JOHN BENNETT.

Resolution Introduced in Illinois Legislaturein Relation to Contested Election in Pike County
[December 17, 1839]
Resolved, that the final action upon the contested election from the county of Pike, [be] defered until monday next; and that the door keeper be directed to procure the attendance of George M. Hanson of Coles county by that time.

Speech at Springfield, Illinois
December 18, 1839
. . . . On Wednesday evening, after many efforts on the part of the Locos to GET OFF, the debate was opened on the part of the Whigs, by a speech from Mr. Lincoln, characterized by that great force and point for which he is so justly admired. He set out with a statement of three propositions, which he believed he could demonstrate to the satisfaction of every unprejudiced mind in the house. 1st, That there had been a total change in the administration of the Government, within the last ten years; and that change had been for the WORSE. 2d. That a new and corrupt system of tactics had been introduced into the National administration, unknown to former administrations: and thirdly, that the consummation and perfection of this whole scheme of fraud and corruption, was in the establishment of the SUB-TREASURY. These several propositions he sustained, not by rant, declamation and assertion, but by an array of documentary evidence, which could not be disputed.

Amendment Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Bill Incorporating the Springfield Mechanics' Union
[December 19, 1839]
Amend the bill by filling the blank in the first section with ``Caleb Burchall [Birchall?], Thomas Lewis, Edmund R. Wiley, William D Herndon, Simeon Francis, George R. Weber Walter Davis, George Wood, and R F Coflin

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Springfield, Dec: 23rd. 1839-
Dr. Henry will write you all the political news. I write this about some little matters of business. You recollect you told me me [ sic ] you had drawn the Chicago Musick money & sent it to the claimants.  A d---d hawk billed yankee is here, besetting me at every turn I take, saying that Robt Kinzie never received the $80. to which he was entitled. Can you tell any thing about the matter? Again Old Mr. Wright, who lives up South Fork some where, is teasing me continually about some deeds which he says he left with you, but which I can find nothing of. Can you tell where they are? The legislature is in session, and has suffered the Bank to forfeit it's charter without Benefit of Clergy . There seems to be but verry little disposition to resuscitate it. Whenever a letter comes from you to Mrs. Stuart, I carry it to her, and then I see Betty.  She is a tolerably nice fellow now. May be I will write again when I get more time. Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN P.S. The Democratic giant is here; but he is not now worth talking about.  A. L.

Speech on the Sub-Treasury
December , 1839
FELLOW CITIZENS:--- It is peculiarly embarrassing to me to attempt a continuance of the discussion, on this evening, which has been conducted in this Hall on several preceding ones. It is so, because on each of those evenings, there was a much fuller attendance than now, without any reason for its being so, except the greater interest the community feel in the Speakers who addressed them then , than they do in him who is to do so now . I am, indeed, apprehensive, that the few who have attended, have done so, more to spare me of mortification, than in the hope of being interested in any thing I may be able to say. This circumstance casts a damp upon my spirits, which I am sure I shall be unable to overcome during the evening. But enough of preface.  The subject heretofore, and now to be discussed, is the Sub-Treasury scheme of the present Administration, as a means of collecting, safe-keeping, transferring and disbursing the revenues of the Nation, as contrasted with a National Bank for the same purposes. Mr. Douglass has said that we (the Whigs), have not dared to meet them (the Locos), in argument on this question. I protest against this assertion. I assert that we have again and again, during this discussion, urged facts and arguments against the Sub-Treasury, which they have neither dared to deny nor attempted to answer. But lest some may be led to believe that we really wish to avoid the question, I now propose, in my humble way, to urge those arguments again; at the same time, begging the audience to mark well the positions I shall take, and the proof I shall offer to sustain them, and that they will not again permit Mr. Douglass or his friends, to escape the force of them, by a round and groundless assertion, that we ``dare not meet them in argument.'' Of the Sub-Treasury then, as contrasted with a National Bank, for the before enumerated purposes, I lay down the following propositions, to wit: 1st. It will injuriously affect the community by its operation on the circulating medium. 2d. It will be a more expensive fiscal agent. 3d. It will be a less secure depository of the public money. To show the truth of the first proposition, let us take a short review of our condition under the operation of a National Bank. It was the depository of the public revenues. Between the collection of those revenues and the disbursements of them by the government, the Bank was permitted to, and did actually loan them out to individuals, and hence the large amount of money annually collected for revenue purposes, which by any other plan would have been idle a great portion of time, was kept almost constantly in circulation. Any person who will reflect, that money is only valuable while in circulation, will readily perceive, that any device which will keep the government revenues, in constant circulation, instead of being locked up in idleness, is no inconsiderable advantage. By the Sub-Treasury, the revenue is to be collected, and kept in iron boxes until the government wants it for disbursement; thus robbing the people of the use of it, while the government does not itself need it, and while the money is performing no nobler office than that of rusting in iron boxes. The natural effect of this change of policy, every one will see, is to reduce the quantity of money in circulation. But again, by the Sub-Treasury scheme the revenue is to be collected in specie. I anticipate that this will be disputed. I expect to hear it said, that it is not the policy of the Administration to collect the revenue in specie. If it shall, I reply, that Mr. Van Buren, in his message recommending the Sub-Treasury, expended nearly a column of that document in an attempt to persuade Congress to provide for the collection of the revenue in specie exclusively; and he concludes with these words. ``It may be safely assumed, that no motive of convenience to the citizen , requires the reception of Bank paper.'' In addition to this, Mr. Silas Wright, Senator from New York, and the political, personal and confidential friend of Mr. Van Buren, drafted and introduced into the Senate the first Sub-Treasury Bill, and that bill provided for ultimately collecting the revenue in specie. It is true, I know, that that clause was stricken from the bill, but it was done by the votes of the Whigs, aided by a portion only of the Van Buren Senators. No Sub-Treasury bill has yet become a law, though two or three have been considered by Congress, some with and some without the specie clause; so that I admit there is room for quibbling upon the question of whether the administration favor the exclusive specie doctrine or not; but I take it, that the fact that the President at first urged the specie doctrine, and that under his recommendation the first bill introduced embraced it, warrants us in charging it as the policy of the party, until their head as publicly recants it, as he at first espoused it---I repeat then, that by the Sub-Treasury, the revenue is to be collected in specie . Now mark what the effect of this must be. By all estimates ever made, there are but between 60 and 80 millions of specie in the United States. The expenditures of the Government for the year 1838, the last for which we have had the report, were 40 millions. Thus it is seen, that if the whole revenue be collected in specie, it will take more than half of all the specie in the nation to do it. By this means more than half of all the specie belonging to the fifteen million of souls, who compose the whole population of the country, is thrown into the hands of the public office-holders, and other public creditors, composing in number, perhaps not more than one-quarter of a million; leaving the other fourteen millions and three-quarters to get along as they best can, with less than one-half of the specie of the country, and whatever rags and shin-plasters they may be able to put, and keep, in circulation. By this means, every office-holder, and other public creditor, may, and most likely will, set up shaver; and a most glorious harvest will the specie men have of it; each specie man, upon a fair division, having to his share, the fleecing of about 59 rag men.  In all candor, let me ask, was such a system for benefiting the few at the expense of the many, ever before devised? And was the sacred name of Democracy, ever before made to endorse such an enormity against the rights of the people? I have already said that the Sub-Treasury will reduce the quantity of money in circulation. This position is strengthened by the recollection, that the revenue is to be collected in specie, so that the mere amount of revenue is not all that is withdrawn, but the amount of paper circulation that the 40 millions would serve as a basis to, is withdrawn; which would be in a sound state at least 100 millions. When 100 millions, or more, of the circulation we now have, shall be withdrawn, who can contemplate, without terror, the distress, ruin, bankruptcy and beggary, that must follow. The man who has purchased any article, say a horse, on credit, at 100 dollars, when there are 200 millions circulating in the country, if the quantity be reduced to 100 millions by the arrival of pay-day, will find the horse but sufficient to pay half the debt; and the other half must either be paid out of his other means, and thereby become a clear loss to him; or go unpaid, and thereby become a clear loss to his creditor. What I have here said of a single case of the purchase of a horse, will hold good in every case of a debt existing at the time a reduction in the quantity of money occurs, by whomsoever, and for whatsoever it may have been contracted. It may be said, that what the debtor loses, the creditor gains by this operation; but on examination this will be found true only to a very limited extent. It is more generally true that all lose by it. The creditor , by losing more of his debts, than he gains by the increased value of those he collects; the debtor by either parting with more of his property to pay his debts, than he received in contracting them; or, by entirely breaking up in his business, and thereby being thrown upon the world in idleness. The general distress thus created, will, to be sure, be temporary , because whatever change may occur in the quantity of money in any community, time will adjust the derangement produced; but while that adjustment is progressing, all suffer more or less, and very many lose every thing that renders life desirable. Why, then, shall we suffer a severe difficulty, even though it be but temporary , unless we receive some equivalent for it? What I have been saying as to the effect produced by a reduction of the quantity of money, relates to the whole country. I now propose to show that it would produce a peculiar and permanent hardship upon the citizens of those States and Territories in which the public lands lie. The Land Offices in those States and Territories, as all know, form the great gulf by which all, or nearly all, the money in them, is swallowed up. When the quantity of money shall be reduced, and consequently every thing under individual control brought down in proportion, the price of those lands, being fixed by law, will remain as now. Of necessity, it will follow that the produce or labor that now raises money sufficient to purchase 80 acres, will then raise but sufficient to purchase 40, or perhaps not that much. And this difficulty and hardship will last as long, in some degree, as any portion of these lands shall remain undisposed of. Knowing, as I well do, the difficulty that poor people now encounter in procuring homes, I hesitate not to say, that when the price of the public lands shall be doubled or trebled; or, which is the same thing, produce and labor cut down to one-half or one-third of their present prices, it will be little less than impossible for them to procure those homes at all. In answer to what I have said as to the effect the Sub-Treasury would have upon the currency, it is often urged that the money collected for revenue purposes will not lie idle in the vaults of the Treasury; and, farther, that a National Bank produces greater derangement in the currency, by a system of contractions and expansions, than the Sub-Treasury would produce in any way. In reply, I need only show, that experience proves the contrary of both these propositions. It is an undisputed fact, that the late Bank of the United States, paid the Government $75,000 annually, for the privilege of using the public money between the times of its collection and disbursement. Can any man suppose, that the Bank would have paid this sum, annually for twenty years, and then offered to renew its obligations to do so, if in reality there was no time intervening between the collection and disbursement of the revenue, and consequently no privilege of using the money extended to it? Again, as to the contractions and expansions of a National Bank, I need only point to the period intervening between the time that the late Bank got into successful operation and that at which the Government commenced war upon it, to show that during that period, no such contractions or expansions took place. If before, or after that period, derangement occurred in the currency, it proves nothing. The Bank could not be expected to regulate the currency, either before it got into successful operation, or after it was crippled and thrown into death convulsions, by the removal of the deposits from it, and other hostile measures of the Government against it. We do not pretend, that a National Bank can establish and maintain a sound and uniform state of currency in the country, in spite of the National Government; but we do say, that it has established and maintained such a currency, and can do so again, by the aid of that Government; and we further say, that no duty is more imperative on that Government, than the duty it owes the people, of furnishing them a sound and uniform currency. I now leave the proposition as to the effect of the Sub-Treasury upon the currency of the country, and pass to that relative to the additional expense which must be incurred by it over that incurred by a National Bank, as a fiscal agent of the Government. By the late National Bank, we had the public revenue received, safely kept, transferred and disbursed, not only without expense, but we actually received of the Bank $75,000 annually for its privileges, while rendering us those services. By the Sub-Treasury, according to the estimate of the Secretary of the Treasury, who is the warm advocate of the system and which estimate is the lowest made by any one, the same services are to cost $60,000. Mr. Rives,  who, to say the least, is equally talented and honest, estimates that these services, under the Sub-Treasury system, cannot cost less than $600,000. For the sake of liberality, let us suppose that the estimates of the Secretary and Mr. Rives, are the two extremes, and that their mean is about the true estimate, and we shall then find, that when to that sum is added the $75,000, which the Bank paid us, the difference between the two systems, in favor of the Bank, and against the Sub-Treasury, is $405,000 a year. This sum, though small when compared to the many millions annually expended by the General Government, is, when viewed by itself, very large; and much too large, when viewed in any light, to be thrown away once a year for nothing. It is sufficient to pay the pensions of more than 4,000 Revolutionary Soldiers, or to purchase a 40-acre tract of Government land, for each one of more than 8,000 poor families. To the argument against the Sub-Treasury, on the score of additional expense, its friends, so far as I know, attempt no answer. They choose, so far as I can learn, to treat the throwing away $405,000 once a year, as a matter entirely too small to merit their democratic notice. I now come to the proposition, that it would be less secure than a National Bank, as a depository of the public money. The experience of the past, I think, proves the truth of this. And here, inasmuch as I rely chiefly upon experience to establish it, let me ask, how is it that we know any thing---that any event will occur, that any combination of circumstances will produce a certain result---except by the analogies of past experience? What has once happened, will invariably happen again, when the same circumstances which combined to produce it, shall again combine in the same way. We all feel that we know that a blast of wind would extinguish the flame of the candle that stands by me. How do we know it? We have never seen this flame thus extinguished. We know it, because we have seen through all our lives, that a blast of wind extinguishes the flame of a candle whenever it is thrown fully upon it. Again, we all feel to know that we have to die. How? We have never died yet. We know it, because we know, or at least think we know, that of all the beings, just like ourselves, who have been coming into the world for six thousand years, not one is now living who was here two hundred years ago. I repeat then, that we know nothing of what will happen in future, but by the analogy of experience, and that the fair analogy of past experience fully proves that the Sub-Treasury would be a less safe depository of the public money than a National Bank. Examine it. By the Sub-Treasury scheme, the public money is to be kept, between the times of its collection and disbursement, by Treasurers of the Mint, Custom-house officers, Land officers, and some new officers to be appointed in the same way that those first enumerated are. Has a year passed since the organization of the Government, that numerous defalcations have not occurred among this class of officers? Look at Swartwout with his $1,200,000, Price with his $75,000, Harris with his $109,000, Hawkins with his $100,000, Linn with his $55,000, together with some twenty-five hundred lesser lights.  Place the public money again in these same hands, and will it not again go the same way? Most assuredly it will. But turn to the history of the National Bank in this country, and we shall there see, that those Banks performed the fiscal operations of the Government thro' a period of 40 years, received, safely kept, transferred, disbursed, an aggregate of nearly five hundred millions of dollars; and that, in all that time, and with all that money, not one dollar, nor one cent, did the Government lose by them. Place the public money again in a similar depository, and will it not again be safe? But, conclusive as the experience of fifty years is, that individuals are unsafe depositories of the public money, and of forty years that National Banks are safe depositories, we are not left to rely solely upon that experience for the truth of those propositions. If experience were silent upon the subject, conclusive reasons could be shown for the truth of them. It is often urged, that to say the public money will be more secure in a National Bank, than in the hands of individuals, as proposed in the Sub-Treasury, is to say, that Bank directors and Bank officers are more honest than sworn officers of the Government. Not so. We insist on no such thing. We say that public officers, selected with reference to their capacity and honesty, (which by the way, we deny is the practice in these days,) stand an equal chance, precisely, of being capable and honest, with Bank officers selected by the same rule. We further say, that with however much care selections may be made, there will be some unfaithful and dishonest in both classes. The experience of the whole world, in all by-gone times, proves this true. The Saviour of the world chose twelve disciples, and even one of that small number, selected by superhuman wisdom, turned out a traitor and a devil. And, it may not be improper here to add, that Judas carried the bag---was the Sub-Treasurer of the Saviour and his disciples. We then, do not say, nor need we say, to maintain our proposition, that Bank officers are more honest than Government officers, selected by the same rule. What we do say, is, that the interest of the Sub-Treasurer is against his duty ---while the interest of the Bank is on the side of its duty . Take instances---a Sub-Treasurer has in his hands one hundred thousand dollars of public money; his duty says---``You ought to pay this money over''---but his interest says, ``You ought to run away with this sum, and be a nabob the balance of your life.'' And who that knows anything of human nature, doubts that, in many instances, interest will prevail over duty, and that the Sub-Treasurer will prefer opulent knavery in a foreign land, to honest poverty at home? But how different is it with a Bank. Besides the Government money deposited with it, it is doing business upon a large capital of its own. If it proves faithful to the Government, it continues its business; if unfaithful, it forfeits its charter, breaks up its business, and thereby loses more than all it can make by seizing upon the Government funds in its possession. Its interest , therefore, is on the side of its duty---is to be faithful to the Government, and consequently, even the dishonest amongst its managers, have no temptation to be faithless to it. Even if robberies happen in the Bank, the losses are borne by the Bank, and the Government loses nothing. It is for this reason then, that we say a Bank is the more secure. It is because of that admirable feature in the Bank system, which places the interest and the duty of the depository both on one side; whereas that feature can never enter into the Sub-Treasury system. By the latter, the interest of the individuals keeping the public money, will wage an eternal war with their duty , and in very many instances must be victorious. In answer to the argument drawn from the fact that individual depositories of public money, have always proved unsafe, it is urged that even if we had a National Bank, the money has to pass through the same individual hands, that it will under the Sub-Treasury. This is only partially true in fact, and wholly fallacious in argument. It is only partially true, in fact, because by the Sub-Treasury bill, four Receivers General are to be appointed by the President and Senate. These are new officers, and consequently, it cannot be true that the money, or any portion of it, has heretofore passed thro' their hands. These four new officers are to be located at New York, Boston, Charleston and St. Louis, and consequently are to be the depositories of all the money collected at or near those points; so that more than three-fourths of the public money will fall into the keeping of these four new officers, which did not exist as officers under the National Bank system. It is only partially true, then, that the money passes through the same hands, under a National Bank, as it would do under the Sub-Treasury. It is true, that under either system, individuals must be employed as Collectors of the Customs, Receivers at the Land Offices, &c. &c. but the difference is, that under the Bank system, the receivers of all sorts, receive the money and pay it over to the Bank once a week when the collections are large, and once a month when they are small, whereas, by the Sub-Treasury system, individuals are not only to collect the money, but they are to keep it also, or pay it over to other individuals equally unsafe as themselves, to be by them kept, until it is wanted for disbursement. It is during the time that it is thus lying idle in their hands, that opportunity is afforded, and temptation held out to them to embezzle and escape with it. By the Bank system, each Collector or Receiver, is to deposite in Bank all the money in his hands at the end of each month at most, and to send the Bank certificates of deposite to the Secretary of the Treasury. Whenever that certificate of deposite fails to arrive at the proper time, the Secretary knows that the officer thus failing, is acting the knave; and if he is himself disposed to do his duty, he has him immediately removed from office, and thereby cuts him off from the possibility of embezzling but little more than the receipts of a single month. But by the Sub-Treasury System, the money is to lie month after month in the hands of individuals; larger amounts are to accumulate in the hands of the Receivers General, and some others, by perhaps ten to one, than ever accumulated in the hands of individuals before; yet during all this time, in relation to this great stake, the Secretary of the Treasury can comparatively know nothing. Reports, to be sure, he will have, but reports are often false, and always false when made by a knave to cloak his knavery. Long experience has shown, that nothing short of an actual demand of the money will expose an adroit peculator. Ask him for reports and he will give them to your heart's content; send agents to examine and count the money in his hands, and he will borrow of a friend, merely to be counted and then returned, a sufficient sum to make the sum square. Try what you will, it will all fail till you demand the money---then, and not till then, the truth will come. The sum of the whole matter, I take to be this: Under the Bank system, while sums of money, by the law, were permitted to lie in the hands of individuals, for very short periods only , many and very large defalcations occurred by those individuals. Under the Sub-Treasury system, much larger sums are to lie in the hands of individuals for much longer periods , thereby multiplying temptation in proportion as the sums are larger ; and multiplying opportunity in proportion as the periods are longer to, and for, those individuals to embezzle and escape with the public treasure; and, therefore, just in the proportion, that the temptation and the opportunity are greater under the Sub-Treasury than the Bank system, will the peculations and defalcations be greater under the former than they have been under the latter. The truth of this, independent of actual experience, is but little less than self-evident. I therefore, leave it. But it is said, and truly too, that there is to be a Penitentiary Department to the Sub-Treasury. This, the advocates of the system will have it, will be a `` king-cure-all .'' Before I go farther, may I not ask if the Penitentiary Department, is not itself an admission that they expect the public money to be stolen? Why build the cage if they expect to catch no birds? But to the question how effectual the Penitentiary will be in preventing defalcations. How effectual have Penitentiaries heretofore been in preventing the crimes they were established to suppress? Has not confinement in them long been the legal penalty of larceny, forgery, robbery, and many other crimes, in almost all the States? And yet, are not those crimes committed weekly, daily, nay, and even hourly, in every one of those States? Again, the gallows has long been the penalty of murder, and yet we scarcely open a newspaper, that does not relate a new case of that crime. If then, the Penitentiary has ever heretofore failed to prevent larceny, forgery and robbery, and the gallows and halter have likewise failed to prevent murder, by what process of reasoning, I ask, is it that we are to conclude the Penitentiary will hereafter prevent the stealing of the public money? But our opponents seem to think they answer the charge, that the money will be stolen, fully, if they can show that they will bring the offenders to punishment. Not so. Will the punishment of the thief bring back the stolen money? No more so than the hanging of a murderer restores his victim to life. What is the object desired? Certainly not the greatest number of thieves we can catch, but that the money may not be stolen. If, then, any plan can be devised for depositing the public treasure, where it will be never stolen, never embezzled, is not that the plan to be adopted? Turn, then, to a National Bank, and you have that plan, fully and completely successful, as tested by the experience of forty years. I have now done with the three propositions that the Sub-Treasury would injuriously affect the currency, and would be more expensive and less secure as a depository of the public money than a National Bank. How far I have succeeded in establishing their truth is for others to judge. Omitting, for want of time, what I had intended to say as to the effect of the Sub-Treasury, to bring the public money under the more immediate control of the President, than it has ever heretofore been, I now only ask the audience, when Mr. Calhoun  shall answer me, to hold him to the questions . Permit him not to escape them. Require him either to show, that the Sub-Treasury would not injuriously affect the currency , or that we should in some way, receive an equivalent for that injurious effect. Require him either to show that the Sub-Treasury would not be more expensive as a fiscal agent, than a Bank, or that we should, in some way be compensated for that additional expense. And particularly require him to show, that the public money would be as secure in the Sub-Treasury as in a National Bank, or that the additional insecurity would be over-balanced by some good result of the proposed change. No one of them, in my humble judgment, will he be able to do; and I venture the prediction, and ask that it may be especially noted, that he will not attempt to answer the proposition, that the Sub-Treasury would be more expensive than a National Bank as a fiscal agent of the Government . As a sweeping objection to a National Bank, and consequently an argument in favor of the Sub-Treasury as a substitute for it, it often has been urged, and doubtless will be again, that such a bank is unconstitutional. We have often heretofore shown, and therefore need not in detail do so again, that a majority of the Revolutionary patriarchs, whoever acted officially upon the question, commencing with Gen. Washington and embracing Gen. Jackson, the larger number of the signers of the Declaration, and of the framers of the Constitution, who were in the Congress of 1791, have decided upon their oaths that such a bank is constitutional. We have also shown that the votes of Congress have more often been in favor of than against its constitutionality. In addition to all this we have shown that the Supreme Court---that tribunal which the Constitution has itself established to decide Constitutional questions---has solemnly decided that such a bank is constitutional. Protesting that these authorities ought to settle the question---ought to be conclusive, I will not urge them further now. I now propose to take a view of the question which I have not known to be taken by anyone before. It is, that whatever objection ever has or ever can be made to the constitutionality of a bank, will apply with equal force in its whole length, breadth and proportions to the Sub-Treasury. Our opponents say, there is no express authority in the Constitution to establish a Bank, and therefore a Bank is unconstitutional; but we, with equal truth, may say, there is no express authority in the Constitution to establish a Sub-Treasury, and therefore a Sub-Treasury is unconstitutional. Who then, has the advantage of this `` express authority '' argument? Does it not cut equally both ways? Does it not wound them as deeply and as deadly as it does us? Our position is that both are constitutional. The Constitution enumerates expressly several powers which Congress may exercise, superadded to which is a general authority ``to make all laws necessary and proper,'' for carrying into effect all the powers vested by the Constitution of the Government of the United States. One of the express powers given Congress, is ``To lay and collect taxes; duties, imposts, and excises; to pay the debts, and provide for the common defence and general welfare of the United States.'' Now, Congress is expressly authorized to make all laws necessary and proper for carrying this power into execution. To carry it into execution, it is indispensably necessary to collect, safely keep, transfer, and disburse a revenue. To do this, a Bank is ``necessary and proper.'' But, say our opponents, to authorize the making of a Bank, the necessity must be so great, that the power just recited, would be nugatory without it; and that that necessity is expressly negatived by the fact, that they have got along ten whole years without such a Bank . Immediately we turn on them, and say, that that sort of necessity for a Sub-Treasury does not exist, because we have got along forty whole years without one. And this time, it may be observed, that we are not merely equal with them in the argument, but we beat them forty to ten , or which is the same thing, four to one . On examination, it will be found, that the absurd rule, which prescribes that before we can constitutionally adopt a National Bank as a fiscal agent, we must show an indispensable necessity for it, will exclude every sort of fiscal agent that the mind of man can conceive. A Bank is not indispensable , because we can take the Sub-Treasury ; the Sub-Treasury is not indispensable because we can take the Bank . The rule is too absurd to need further comment. Upon the phrase `` necessary and proper ,'' in the Constitution, it seems to me more reasonable to say, that some fiscal agent is indispensably necessary ; but, inasmuch as no particular sort of agent is thus indispensable , because some other sort might be adopted, we are left to choose that sort of agent, which may be most `` proper '' on grounds of expediency. But it is said the Constitution gives no power to Congress to pass acts of incorporation. Indeed! What is the passing [of] an act of incorporation, but the making of a law ? Is any one wise enough to tell? The Constitution expressly gives Congress power `` to pass all laws necessary and proper ,'' &c. If, then, the passing of a Bank charter, be the `` making a law necessary and proper ,'' is it not clearly within the constitutional power of Congress to do so? I now leave the Bank and the Sub-Treasury to try to answer, in a brief way, some of the arguments which, on previous evenings here, have been urged by Messrs. Lamborn  and Douglass. Mr. Lamborn admits that `` errors ,'' as he charitably calls them, have occurred under the present and late administrations, but he insists that as great `` errors '' have occurred under all administrations. This we respectfully deny. We admit that errors may have occurred under all administrations; but we insist that there is no parallel between them and those of the two last. If they can show that their errors are no greater in number and magnitude, than those of former times, we call off the dogs. But they can do no such thing. To be brief, I will now attempt a contrast of the ``errors'' of the two latter, with those of former administrations, in relation to the public expenditures only. What I am now about to say, as to the expenditures, will be, in all cases, exclusive of payments on the National debt. By an examination of authentic public documents, consisting of the regular series of annual reports, made by all the Secretaries of the Treasury from the establishment of the Government down to the close of the year 1838, the following contrasts will be presented. 1st. The last ten years under Gen. Jackson and Mr. Van Buren, cost more money than the first twenty-seven did, (including the heavy expenses of the late British war,) under Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and Madison. 2d. The last year of J. Q. Adams' administration cost, in round numbers, thirteen millions, being about one dollar to each soul in the nation; the last (1838) of Mr. Van Buren's cost forty millions, being about two dollars and fifty cents to each soul; and being larger than the expenditure of Mr. Adams in the proportion of five to two . 3d. The highest annual expenditure during the late British war, being in 1814, and while we had in actual service rising 188,000 militia, together with the whole regular army, swelling the number to greatly over 200,000, and they to be clad, fed and transported from point to point, with great rapidity and corresponding expense, and to be furnished with arms and ammunition, and they to be transported in like manner, and at like expense, was no more in round numbers than thirty millions; whereas, the annual expenditure of 1838, under Mr. Van Buren, and while we were at peace with every government in the world, was forty millions; being over the highest year of the late and very expensive war, in the proportion of four to three . 4th. Gen. Washington administered the Government eight years for sixteen millions. Mr. Van Buren administered it one year (1838) for forty millions; so that Mr. Van Buren expended twice and a half as much in one year, as Gen. Washington did in eight , and being in the proportion of twenty to one ---or, in other words, had Gen. Washington administered the Government twenty years, at the same average expense that he did for eight , he would have carried us through the whole twenty , for no more money than Mr. Van Buren has expended in getting us through the single one of 1838. Other facts, equally astounding, might be presented from the same authentic document; but I deem the foregoing abundantly sufficient to establish the proposition, that there is no parallel between the `` errors '' of the present and late administrations, and those of former times, and that Mr. Van Buren is wholly out of the line of all precedents. But, Mr. Douglass, seeing that the enormous expenditure of 1838, has no parallel in the olden times, comes in with a long list of excuses for it. This list of excuses I will rapidly examine, and show, as I think, that the few of them which are true, prove nothing; and that the majority of them are wholly untrue in fact. He first says, that the expenditures of that year were made under the appropriations of Congress--- one branch of which was a Whig body . It is true that those expenditures were made under the appropriations of Congress; but it is untrue that either branch of Congress was a Whig body. The Senate had fallen into the hands of the administration, more than a year before, as proven by the passage of the Expunging Resolution;  and at the time those appropriations were made, there were too few Whigs in that body, to make a respectable struggle, in point of numbers, upon any question. This is notorious to all. The House of Representatives that voted those appropriations, was the same that first assembled at the called session of September, 1838. Although it refused to pass the Sub-Treasury Bill, a majority of its members were elected as friends of the administration, and proved their adherence to it, by the election of a Van Buren Speaker, and two Van Buren clerks. It is clear then, that both branches of the Congress that passed those appropriations were in the hands of Mr. Van Buren's friends, so that the Whigs had no power to arrest them, as Mr. Douglass would insist. And is not the charge of extravagant expenditures, equally well sustained, if shown to have been made by a Van Buren Congress, as if shown to have been made in any other way? A Van Buren Congress passed the bill; and Mr. Van Buren himself approved them, and consequently the party are wholly responsible for them. Mr. Douglass next says that a portion of the expenditures of that year was made for the purchase of public lands from the Indians. Now it happens that no such purchase was made during that year. It is true that some money was paid that year in pursuance of Indian treaties; but no more, or rather not as much as had been paid on the same account in each of several preceding years. Next he says that the Florida war created many millions of this year's expenditure. This is true, and it is also true that during that and every other year that that war has existed, it has cost three or four times as much as it would have done under an honest and judicious administration of the Government. The large sums foolishly, not to say corruptly, thrown away in that war constitute one of the just causes of complaint against the administration. Take a single instance. The agents of the Government in connection with that war needed a certain Steamboat; the owner proposed to sell it for ten thousand dollars; the agents refused to give that sum, but hired the boat at one hundred dollars per day, and kept it at that hire till it amounted to ninety-two thousand dollars. This fact is not found in the public reports, but depends with me, on the verbal statement of an officer of the navy, who says he knows it to be true. That the administration ought to be credited for the reasonable expenses of the Florida war, we have never denied. Those reasonable charges, we say, could not exceed one or two millions a year. Deduct such a sum from the forty-million expenditure of 1838, and the remainder will still be without a parallel as an annual expenditure. Again, Mr. Douglass says that the removal of the Indians to the country west of the Mississippi created much of the expenditure of 1838. I have examined the public documents in relation to this matter, and find that less was paid for the removal of Indians in that than in some former years. The whole sum expended on that account in that year did not much exceed one-quarter of a million. For this small sum, altho' we do not think the administration entitled to credit, because large sums have been expended in the same way in former years, we consent it may take one and make the most of it. Next, Mr. Douglass says that five millions of the expenditures of 1838 consisted of the payment of the French indemnity money to its individual claimants. I have carefully examined the public documents, and thereby find this statement to be wholly untrue. Of the forty millions of dollars expended in 1838, I am enabled to say positively that not one dollar consisted of payments on the French indemnities. So much for that excuse. Next comes the Post-office. He says that five millions were expended during that year to sustain that department. By a like examination of public documents, I find this also wholly untrue. Of the so often mentioned forty millions, not one dollar went to the Post-office. I am glad, however, that the Post-office has been referred to, because it warrants me in digressing a little to inquire how it is that that department of the Government has become a charge upon the Treasury, whereas under Mr. Adams and the Presidents before him it not only, to use a homely phrase, cut its own fodder, but actually threw a surplus into the Treasury. Although nothing of the forty millions was paid on that account in 1838, it is true that five millions are appropriated to be so expended in 1839; showing clearly that the department has become a charge upon the Treasury. How has this happened? I account for it in this way. The chief expense of the Post-office Department consists of the payments of Contractors for carrying the mail. Contracts for carrying the mails are by law let to the lowest bidders, after advertisement. This plan introduces competition, and insures the transportation of the mails at fair prices, so long as it is faithfully adhered to. It has ever been adhered to until Mr. Barry  was made Postmaster-General. When he came into office, he formed the purpose of throwing the mail contracts into the hands of his friends, to the exclusion of his opponents. To effect this, the plan of letting to the lowest bidder must be evaded, and it must be done in this way: the favorite bid less by perhaps three or four hundred per cent. than the contract could be performed for, and consequently shutting out all honest competition, became the contractor. The Postmaster-General would immediately add some slight additional duty to the contract, and under the pretense of extra allowance for extra services run the contract to double, triple, and often quadruple what honest and fair bidders had proposed to take it at. In 1834 the finances of the department had become so deranged that total concealment was no longer possible, and consequently a committee of the Senate were directed to make a thorough investigation of its affairs. Their report is found in the Senate Documents of 1833-34, Vol. 5, Doc. 422; which documents may be seen at the Secretary's office, and I presume elsewhere in the State. The report shows numerous cases of similar import, of one of which I give the substance. The contract for carrying the mail upon a certain route had expired, and of course was to be let again. The old contractor offered to take it for $300 a year, the mail to be transported thereon three times a week, or for $600 transported daily. One James Reeside bid $40 for three times a week, or $99 daily, and of course received the contract. On the examination of the committee, it was discovered that Reeside had received for the service on this route, which he had contracted to render for less than $100, the enormous sum of $1,999! This is but a single case. Many similar ones, covering some ten or twenty pages of a large volume, are given in that report. The department was found to be insolvent to the amount of half a million, and to have been so grossly mismanaged, or rather so corruptly managed, in almost every particular, that the best friends of the Post Master General made no defence of his administration of it. They admitted that he was wholly unqualified for that office; but still he was retained in it by the President, until he resigned voluntarily about a year afterwards. And when he resigned it what do you think became of him? Why, he sunk into obscurity and disgrace, to be sure, you will say. No such thing. Well, then, what did become of him? Why the President immediately expressed his high disapprobation of his almost unequalled incapacity and corruption, by appointing him to a foreign mission, with a salary and outfit of $18,000 a year. The party now attempt to throw Barry off, and to avoid the responsibility of his sins. Did not the President endorse those sins, when on the very heel of their commission, he appointed their author to the very highest and most honorable office in his gift, and which is but a single step behind the very goal of American political ambition. I return to another of Mr. Douglass' excuses for the expenditures of 1838, at the same time announcing the pleasing intelligence, that this is the last one. He says that ten millions of that years expenditure, was a contingent appropriation, to prosecute an anticipated war with Great Britain, on the Maine boundary question. Few words will settle this. First: that the ten millions appropriated was not made till 1839, and consequently could not have been expended in 1838; and, second: although it was appropriated, it has never been expended at all. Those who heard Mr. Douglass, recollect that he indulged himself in a contemptuous expression of pity for me. ``Now he's got me,'' thought I. But when he went on to say that five millions of the expenditure of 1838, were payments of the French indemnities, which I knew to be untrue ; that five millions had been for the Post Office, which I knew to be untrue ; that ten millions had been for the Maine boundary war, which I not only knew to be untrue, but supremely ridiculous also ; and when I saw that he was stupid enough to hope, that I would permit such groundless and audacious assertions to go unexposed, I readily consented, that on the score both of veracity and sagacity, the audience should judge whether he or I were the more deserving of the world's contempt. Mr. Lamborn insists that the difference between the Van Buren party, and the Whigs is, that although, the former sometimes err in practice , they are always correct in principle ---whereas the latter are wrong in principle ---and the better to impress this proposition, he uses a figurative expression in these words: `` The Democrats are vulnerable in the heel, but they are sound in the head and the heart .'' The first branch of the figure, that is that the Democrats are vulnerable in the heel, I admit is not merely figuratively, but literally true. Who that looks but for a moment at their Swartwouts, their Prices, their Harringtons, and their hundreds of others, scampering away with the public money to Texas, to Europe, and to every spot of the earth where a villain may hope to find refuge from justice, can at all doubt that they are most distressingly affected in their heels with a species of `` running itch .'' It seems that this malady of their heels, operates on these sound-headed and honest-hearted creatures, very much like the cork-leg, in the comic song, did on its owner: which, when he had once got started on it, the more he tried to stop it, the more it would run away. At the hazard of wearing this point thread bare, I will relate an anecdote, which seems too strikingly in point to be omitted. A witty Irish soldier, who was always boasting of his bravery, when no danger was near, but who invariably retreated without orders at the first charge of an engagement, being asked by his Captain why he did so, replied: ``Captain, I have as brave a heart as Julius Caesar ever had; but some how or other, whenever danger approaches, my cowardly legs will run away with it.'' So with Mr. Lamborn's party. They take the public money into their hand for the most laudable purpose, that wise heads and honest hearts can dictate; but before they can possibly get it out again their rascally `` vulnerable heels '' will run away with them. Seriously: this proposition of Mr. Lamborn is nothing more or less, than a request that his party may be tried by their professions instead of their practices . Perhaps no position that the party assumes is more liable to, or more deserving of exposure, than this very modest request; and nothing but the unwarrantable length, to which I have already extended these remarks, forbids me now attempting to expose it. For the reason given, I pass it by. I shall advert to but one more point. Mr. Lamborn refers to the late elections in the States, and from their results, confidently predicts, that every State in the Union will vote for Mr. Van Buren at the next Presidential election. Address that argument to cowards and to knaves ; with the free and the brave it will effect nothing. It may be true, if it must , let it. Many free countries have lost their liberty; and ours may lose hers; but if she shall, be it may proudest plume, not that I was the last to desert, but that I never deserted her. I know that the great volcano at Washington, aroused and directed by the evil spirit that reigns there, is belching forth the lava of political corruption, in a current broad and deep, which is sweeping with frightful velocity over the whole length and breadth of the land, bidding fair to leave unscathed no green spot or living thing, while on its bosom are riding like demons on the waves of Hell, the imps of that evil spirit, and fiendishly taunting all those who dare resist its destroying course, with the hopelessness of their effort; and knowing this, I cannot deny that all may be swept away. Broken by it, I, too, may be; bow to it I never will. The probability that we may fall in the struggle ought not to deter us from the support of a cause we believe to be just; it shall not deter me. If ever I feel the soul within me elevate and expand to those dimensions not wholly unworthy of its Almighty Architect, it is when I contemplate the cause of my country, deserted by all the world beside, and I standing up boldly and alone and hurling defiance at her victorious oppressors. Here, without contemplating consequences, before High Heaven, and in the face of the world, I swear eternal fidelity to the just cause, as I deem it, of the land of my life, my liberty and my love. And who, that thinks with me, will not fearlessly adopt the oath that I take. Let none faulter, who thinks he is right, and we may succeed. But, if after all, we shall fail, be it so. We still shall have the proud consolation of saying to our consciences, and to the departed shade of our country's freedom, that the cause approved of our judgment, and adored of our hearts, in disaster, in chains, in torture, in death, we NEVER faultered in defending.

To Thomas Mather
Col. Thomas Mather, Springfield, Illinois, President of State Bank: December 26, 1839.
Sir: You are herewith furnished with a copy of the joint resolution adopted by both branches of the General Assembly of Illinois, which has for its object the appointment of a joint committee to investigate the condition of the State Bank and Branches. The undersigned have been appointed the committee, under the resolution, have organized, and are now ready to proceed with the examination contemplated by the aforesaid resolution. You will have the goodness to advise the committee at what time you will be ready to receive them on the business aforesaid. With great respect, We have the honor to be, Your obedient servants, Byrd Monroe, 	Orlando B. Ficklin, James H. Woodworth, 	William W. Happy, John D. Wood, 	Richard Murphy, Senate Committee . 	Abraham Lincoln, John Moore, House Committee .

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Vacate Part of the Town Plat of Bennett's Addition to the Town of Petersburg
[December 27, 1839]
A Bill for an act to vacate a part of the town plat of Bennett's addition to the town of Petersburg:--- Be it enacted by the people of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly that the town plat for Blocks numbered two, three, four, and five, in Bennett's Addition to the town of Petersburg, be vacated; Provided that this act shall be null and void as against any individual proprietor or proprietors, (if any such there be) of the part of said town hereby proposed to be vacated.

Lincoln's Plan of Campaign in 1840
[c. January, 1840]
1st. Appoint one person in each county as county captain, and take his pledge to perform promptly all the duties assigned him. Duties of the County Captain 1st. To procure from the poll-books a separate list for each Precinct of all the names of all those persons who voted the Whig ticket in August. 2nd. To appoint one person in each Precinct as Precinct Captain, and, by a personal interview with him, procure his pledge, to perform promptly all the duties assigned him. 3rd. To deliver to each Precinct Captain the list of names as above, belonging to his Precinct; and also a written list of his duties. Duties of the Precinct Captain . 1st. To divide the list of names delivered him by the county Captain, into Sections of ten who reside most convenient to each other. 2nd. To appoint one person of each Section as Section Captain, and by a personal interview with him, procure his pledge to perform promptly all the duties assigned him. 3rd. To deliver to each Section Captain the list of names belonging to his Section and also a written list of his duties. Duties of the Section Captain . 1st. To see each man of his Section face to face, and procure his pledge that he will for no consideration (impossibilities excepted) stay from the polls on the first monday in November; and that he will record his vote as early on the day as possible. 2nd. To add to his Section the name of every person in his vicinity who did not vote with us in August, but who will vote with us in the fall, and take the same pledge of him, as from the others. 3rd. To task himself to procure at least such additional names to his Section.

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Springfield, Jany- 1st. 1840.
There is a considerable disposition on the part of both parties in the Legislature here, to reinstate the law bringing on the congressional elections next summer. What motive for this, the Locos have, I can not tell. The whigs say that the canal & other public works will stop, and consequently, we shall then be clear of the foreign votes, whereas by another year they may be brought in again. The whigs here of our district, say that every thing is in favour of holding the election next summer, except the fact of your absence, and several of them have requested me to ask your opinion on the matter. Write me immediately what you think of it. On the other side of this sheet, I send you a copy of my Land Resolutions which passed both branches of our Legislature last winter.  Will you show them to Mr. Calhoun, informing him of the fact of their passage through our Legislature? Mr. Calhoun suggested a similar proposition last winter; and perhaps, if he finds himself backed by one of the states, he may be induced to take it up again. You will see by the resolutions, that you and the others of our delegation in Congress are instructed to go for them. 

Amendment Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto an Act to Amend an Act Concerning the Public Revenue Approved February, 1837
[January 2, 1840]
[Be it enacted by the People of the State of Ill]inois [represen]ted in [the General Assembly:]  That hereafter all Revolution pensioners within this state, shall be permitted to loan all or any part of the money which they may have acquired exclusively by means of their pensions, without paying any tax whatever, therefor. The assessors of the several counties within this state, shall take the production of the regular pension certificate from the War office of the United States, as sufficient evidence, that the person therein shown to be a Revolutionary pensioner is a Revolutionary pensioner; and shall then take the statement upon honor of such pensioner, as sufficient evidence of the facts whether he has any money loaned other than that acquired by means of his pension, and if so, how much, and on all other questions deemed necessary and proper under this act.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Establish a State Road from Petersburg to Waverly
[January 10, 1840]
A bill for an act to establish a state road from Petersburg in Menard county to Waverly in Morgan county SEC: 1st. Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That John B. Broadwell, Franklin Minor  and Achilles Morris, be and they are hereby appointed commissioners to view mark, and locate a state road from Petersburg in Menard county by way of John B Broadwell's, Berlin, New Berlin and the rail road depot in Sangamon county to Waverly in Morgan county. SEC. 2nd. That said commissioners or a majority of them shall meet at Petersburg on the first monday of March next, or any time within sixty days thereafter---and after being first duly sworn, shall proceed to locate said said [ sic ] road, avoiding as much as possible all injury to private property. SEC: 3rd. That said commissioners shall make out a separate report of so much of the location of said road as lies in each of said counties, and file the same with the clerk of the county commissioners court of the proper county. SEC: 4th. That said commissioners shall have such compensation out of the Treasuries of said counties as shall be just and reasonable. 

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Legalize Survey and Town Plat of Mount Auburn
[January 15, 1840]
A bill for an act legalizing the Survey and plat of the town of Mount Auburn in the county of Dane. Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That the Survey and Town Plat of the town of Mount Auburn in the county of Dane, as certified by T. R. Skinner, Surveyor Logan county, are hereby made as legal as if they had been made by the Surveyor of Dane county.

Amendment Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto an Act for Relief of Incorporated Towns
[January 18, 1840]
Strike out the second Section,  and insert the following--- SEC. 2. The collector of each county shall pay over to the President and Trustees of each incorporated town within his county one half of the county tax collected by him off of property real and personal within the limits of such incorporated town.

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Springfield, Jany. 20th. 1840.
Yours of the 5th. Inst. is recd. It is the first from you for a great while. You wish the news from here. The Legislature is in session yet, but has done nothing of importance. The following is my guess as to what will be done. The Internal Improvement System will be put down in a lump, without benefit of clergy. The Bank will be resusitated with some trifling modifications. Whether the canal will go ahead or stop is verry doubtful. Whether the State House will go ahead, depends upon the laws already in force. A proposition made in the House today to throw off to the Teritory of Wisconsin about 14 of our Northern counties---decided. Ayes 11. Noes. 70. Be sure to send me as many copies of the life of Harrison, as you can spare from other uses. Be verry sure to procure and send me the Senate Journal of New York of September 1814. I have a newspaper article which says that that document proves that Van Buren voted against raisin[g] troops in the last war. And, in general, send me every thing you think will be a good `` war-club .'' The nomination of Harrison takes first rate. You know I am never sanguine; but I believe we will carry the state. The chance for doing so, appears to me 25 per cent better than it did for you to beat Douglass. A great many of the grocery sort of Van Buren men, as formerly, are out for Harrison. Our Irish Blacksmith Gregory,  is for Harrison. I believe I may say, that all our friends think the chance of carrying the state, verry good. You have heard that the Whigs and Locos had a political discussion shortly after the meeting of the Legislature. Well, I made a big speech, which is in progress of printing in pamphlet form.  To enlighten you and the rest of the world, I shall send you a copy when it is finished. I cant think of any thing else now. Your friend, as ever--- A. LINCOLN

Committee Report in Illinois Legislature on Condition of the State Bank
[January 21, 1840]
The undersigned members of the Committee to which was refered the Joint Resolution of both branches of the Legislature, submit the following report to the Senate In obedience to the joint resolution of both branches of the General Assembly, the undersigned  proceeded to examine into the condition of the State Bank of Illinois, and into such charges preferred against the Bank, as they deemed of sufficient importance, in their bearing upon the interests of the community, to claim the time and attention of the undersigned As a reason for not going more minutely into an examination of the condition and conduct of the several branches of this institution, the undersigned would state, that time has not been afforded them to visit the several branches, and their information, therefore, relative to the branches, is derived, in part, from witnesses called before and examined by the undersigned, but mainly from the statements under oath of the President and Cashier of the Parent Bank. It will be recollected, that, during the session of 1836-7, a joint select committee was appointed by the Legislature of Illinois, to examine into the condition of the State Bank, with a view of ascertaining, among other things, whether said said [ sic ] institution would constitute a safe depository for the funds of the State. On the 18th. day of February 1837, that committee submitted a report to the House of Representatives, and about the same time a report was also submitted to the Senate, which reports occupied most of the ground, from the organization of the Bank in 1835 to the then present time. The undersigned deemed it an act of inutility, not to say of supererogation, to re-investigate and re-examine the same charges, examined and reported upon by the former committee: and have therefore directed their attention more particularly to the actings and doings of the Bank since February 1837. After a laborious and attentive investigation, the undersigned have prepared the following report, which they beg leave to submit. As the undersigned believed, that the Legislature wished information, to enlighten their judgment, and to assist them in coming to a conclusion, as to the propriety of renewing the forfeited charter of the Bank, they deemed it not improper to bestow most of their attention upon the following inquiries--- 1. Whether there had been any circumstances of mismanagement of the affairs of the Bank, or mal-practices on the part of her officers, or any of them, against which future legislation might guard, or which would render the institution unworthy of public confidence? 2. Whether the stock in said Bank, owned by the state, is safe: and, whether the interest of the state, and the interests of the people, would be consulted, by a renewal of the charter of the Bank? By reference to the [ sic ] joint resolution of both houses, it will be seen, that the first inquiry is, ``whether the Bank has forfeited its charter?'' The 25th. section of the charter, as amended, provides---That if the Bank shall, for sixty days after demand, neglect or refuse to pay its evidences of debt in specie, it shall forthwith close all its business, except the collecting and securing its debts, and the charter shall be forfeited. More than sixty days have elapsed, since the Bank announced that it had suspended specie payments, and, as applications for the specie redemption of its liabilities have doubtless since been made and refused, the undersigned have no doubt, that the charter of the Bank would be declared forfeited by the proper court, on proof of such demand and refusal. The forfeiture, they believe, would date on the sixtieth day from the day of refusal. The charter, therefore, although not yet adjudicated upon, must certainly be forfeited, when the subject is brought before the proper tribunal. The next inquiry, which the committee is directed to make, is---``what rates, of the discounts of the Bank, have been to persons living out of the state?'' The examination of the statements of the Bank has produced in our minds some surprize, at the smallness of the business, which the Bank has done with non-residents. The amount, now due the Bank, on loans and discounts to non residents, amounts to but 4 percent of the whole sum of the debt due the Bank. The documents, which form a part of this report, give information, as to the distribution and character of this debt. The committee are next instructed to inquire, as to the character of the transactions of the Bank, with the House of Nevins, Townsend & Co, of New York. The object of the inquiries on this subject appears to be, to ascertain, if the Bank, in its transactions with this House, has loaned them money, either without, or at a low rate of, interest; or has suffered any portion of the stock, which they own in the Bank, to remain unpaid; and, whether the Bank did not keep in their hands, for their advantage, large sums of money, while our citizens, who applied to the Bank for funds in New York, were refused them. A full examination of the accounts of this house, with the Bank, has assured the undersigned, that none of these abuses have existed. This house has been employed by the Bank, as its agent in New York, for the transaction of most, if not all, of its business, to be done through an agent in that City. Their agency commenced, as appears from the documents herewith submitted, by the transfer to them from the Phoenix Bank of New York, out of the funds received by that bank, in payment of the Capital Stock of the State Bank, paid in by individuals, of One Hundred Thousand Dollars: which they were instructed to vest in Gold Coin for the use of the Bank, and one half of which they shortly afterwards forwarded to the Bank in gold. The funds of the Bank having accumulated at this time in New York, from the paying in of the capital stock, and the Phoenix Bank having refused to allow any Interest thereon, a portion of it was deposited with Nevins, Townsend & Co, who gave security, and allowed six per cent interest on it. It did not remain long in their hands, however---a demand for eastern exchange arising at home, which occasioned its withdrawal. For some time past, this House has constantly been the creditor of the Bank, for large sums of money paid on the checks of the Bank; and, at the present time, the Bank is their debtor in the sum of $150,000. The undersigned have not been able to discover any thing objectionable in these transactions. It would seem that this house was not only able, but willing, to make large advances to the Bank, and that some advantage must have resulted to those, whom the Bank was, by these means, enabled to accommodate with checks on New York. The necessity of some agency of the Bank in New York is obvious: and no reason is seen, for the preference of a Bank over private bankers, if they are able to give satisfactory security, as is the case with the house of Nevins, Townsend & Co, who are bankers of high character. The committee are next instructed to inquire, if the capital stock, subscribed by Samuel Wiggins of Cincinnati, has been paid in?--- In prosecuting this inquiry, they have ascertained, that Samuel Wiggins was the original holder of the stock of the Bank, to the amount of nearly $200,000---- on which he paid several of the earlier instalments: but, that, being disappointed in the sale of his stock, he applied to the Bank, and obtained loans to the amount of $108,000, for the refunding of which he pledged his Bank stock: which money, so obtained, was applied in paying up the calls made by the Bank, on the purchasers of its stock. This is said to be the only instance, except an am[oun]t of about $3000. to other individuals in which this odious practice has been resorted to. A subterfuge and evasion of the law of this character has been practised in other states to an alarming extent, so as to make the capital of particular banks rest upon a paper, instead of a metallic, basis. While the undersigned regret, that any, even a solitary, case of this sort, should have been tolerated by the Directors of the State Bank, and do not incline to offer for it any palliation whatever, they at the same time feel highly gratified, that this practice, so obnoxious to well founded objection, has not been general; but that all the other payments of subscriptions upon stock have been made in gold and silver, or in such funds as were authorized to be received by the charter of the Bank It has also been made the duty of the committee to ascertain the nature of the transactions of the Bank with the house of Denman of Philadelphia---whether any loans were made them, whether they were permitted the free use of money, collected by the falling due of bills drawn on them, on account of pork, bacon, lard & lead, shipped them by the Bank---and whether any bills, drawn on them, have been renewed to prevent protest. The undersigned have not been able, in their examination to find the slightest trace of any connexion between the Bank and the house in question, other than that, which has grown out of the purchase, by the Parent Bank and the Alton Branch, from our citizens, of bills of exchange drawn on said house. Mr. Denman is believed, by the undersigned, to be a responsible and wealthy commission merchant, a part of whose business is, dealing in western produce as agent for the shippers and they feel it is due to him to state---that all the bills on him, held by the bank, have been fully paid, when due. The next subject of enquiry is the transaction of the Bank with the house of Gregg & Weld of Boston It appears that the bank was the holder of about 70,000$ of the acceptances of this House of Dfts. drawn on them at Alton and negotiated by the Branch of the bank there when they failed and since that time this debt has been reduced to $23000 which sum is considered by the officers of the bank as being pretty well secured. Intimately connected with this branch of the inquiry is the transactions of the bank with the house of Godfrey Gilman & Co of Alton. The tabular statement of the Cashier shows the amount of the liabilities of this house, as drawers discounters and endorsers, to have swolen to the immense amount of $800.748.00 which has since been reduced to the sum of $419.358.00. This debt also is considered to be made safe by collateral security. The undersigned feel less reluctance in introducing the names of these individuals, and their private accounts with the Bank from the fact that public rumor was rife with reports and charges against them, and had not failed to set forth the facts in as glowing colors at least as they meritted These two cases are deemed sufficient to demonstrate the impolicy, of the bank extending such large accomodations to individuals or firms---many objections might be urged to this course, the undersigned however will proceed to notice only a few of them 1st. It deprives the bank of the power of fulfiling one of its important functions towit the extending its accomodations to the community generally 2d. It is exceedingly hazardous to risk so much upon the solvency of a single individual or firm, as a single failure may result in the loss of the entire debt 3d. The individual or firm having access to the Bank and being permitted the free use of its funds may monopolize the trade in any speculation or enterprise in which he chooses to embark 4th. Nothing is better calculated to engender heartburnings and to enlist enemies of the most hostile character against a bank than for the community to entertain the belief that the institution is used for the benefit of the few to the exclusion of the many. It will be recollected that a charge similar to this---was made against the late bank of the United States and to sustain that charge it was urged that Mr. T Biddle in Oct. 1830 was indebted to that institution in the sum of $1.120.000---if the objection had any weight in it as applied to the United States Bank with its immense capital and circulation---with how much greater force does the objection apply to our Bank having a circulation less than $3,000,000. It is understood that the Directors of the Parent board aware of the impropriety of this course have adopted measures to restrain directors of branches in again making such excessive loans. While the undersigned decidedly disapprobate this practice of extending such large accomodations to individuals or firms, they are gratified to have the opportunity to bear testimony that the bank in a large majority of cases has made her discounts to dealers wanting small sums for immediate use, as will be seen by reference to a tabular statement furnished by the Bank and herewith presented For the nature and extent of the loan to the Bank of Missouri---reference is made to the copy of contract between the two banks which is herewith submitted The transaction was not fully carried out and the amount loaned was soon returned. The arrangement seems to have been made from a desire on the part of this Bank to cultivate friendly relations with a neighboring institution which was about to go into operation It was a part of the contract with the Missouri bank that she should redeem in specie if necessary the paper of the State Bank loaned to her. The undersigned see nothing objectionable in this transaction The undersigned is also charged with the enquiry whether the Bank has dealt or speculated in lead land or any other commodity. So far as the undersigned have been able to hear and ascertain the facts the bank has not engaged in speculating in lead, land or any other commodity. In relation to this charge the undersigned have availed themselves of the testimony of the officers of the Bank of the correspondence touching these transactions and of the testimony of respectable gentlemen residing at the point where these abuses are said to have occured. The bank professing to be desirous to enhance the price of lead, in the hand of the miner or smelter and to give the profits incident to its reshipment, to the commission merchants of Alton rather than to those of Saint Louis, who had hitherto monopolized the trade, made arrangements to have the lead shipped to J. G. Lamb of Alton---who was to act as the mutual agent of the owner of the lead and the Bank in its reshipment and sale. Upon the sale of the lead after refunding the money advanced, when the shipment was first made to the agent, say about three fourths of the market price of the lead together with interest commissions and other costs---and charges incident to the operation, the overplus accruing from the sale thereof, was to be paid to the former owner---thereby making the bank neither gaining [ sic ] or looser [ sic ] by the fluctuation in price of the article so shipped. The statements of the officers of the bank is coroborated by the testimony of the other witnesses examined as to this point as will more fully appear by the accompanying depositions While the undersigned fully acquit the bank of the charge of speculating or dealing in lead, they are constrained to animadvert upon this course as being unwise and improper on the part of the Bank. It is most obvious that so soon as the arrangement above aluded to was made public, (and its publicity could not easily be prevented) the commission merchants of Saint Louis and the keeneyed speculator of the mineral region whose interests would be affected injuriously by this operation of the Bank, would wage a simultanious war against the institution, and prompted by the ever living principle of cupidity each would try to excell the other in the malignity of the attack, and in the ferocity of its procecution. Experience has shewn us that such was the result of this enterprise and the avowed good intentions of the Bank have not only been thwarted but much odium has been brot to bear against that institution in consequence of the lead operation The undersigned believe that a Bank should pursue the ``even tenor of her way'' without lending her influence and her funds to stimulate any particular individual, in any particular branch of business, and whenever she departs from her plain path of duty, she is likely to awaken the vigilant jealousy of the people, and bring upon her own head either ruin or a loss of confidence which to a Bank is infinitely worse In relation to the charge of the Bank dealing in Pork the undersigned would say that they have no evidence of that fact, but on the contrary if such has been the case, those cognisant of it have failed to make the proof, there is one circumstance however connected with this charge to which the undersigned will advert The cashier of the Chicago Branch with a view of entering engaging in the purchase of pork with Mr. E K Hubbard and Mr. Dole  procured their note to be discounted and obtained funds for the purpose aforesaid. Altho. the undersigned do not deny the right of any officer of the Bank in common with other citizens to receive accomodations yet they deem it imprudent to embark in speculations of the staple commodities of the country, and more especially so when the Bank is not prepared to accomodate all who might desire to obtain its paper If the Bank at the time refered to had been prepared to discount the notes of all who applied this circumstance would probably have excited no remark, but so soon as the notes of others were rejected the disappointed applicants bitterly complain of favoriteism being extended to bank officers If there is any one subject of which the people are more easily excited than any other---and in regard to which their jealousy never slumbers, it is as to the priveliges and powers of Banks[,] therefore every precaution should be used by those institutions to guard against such charges or at least to furnish them no foundation to rest upon. The undersigned have not been able to asscertain that the bank has dealt or speculated in lands further than was absolutely necessary for the erection of her Banking houses The next enquiry relates to the suspended debts of the Bank at the branches of Alton, Galena and Chicago, as the examination in prosecution of this enquiry necessarily involves an exhibition to the undersigned of the transaction of the bank with a number of private individuals and as a publication of their names and accounts would effect no public good they have declined doing so & will only state the general results of the examination A considerable amount of debt exists at these Branches which at the present is unproductive and must require much time in the collection---although a portion of this debt will in all probability be lost it is not believed that the loss will be sufficiently heavy to empair eventually the capital stock of the Bank It will be seen by a refference to an exhibit furnished by the Bank that a contingent fund of about 170.000$ has been set apart which the undersigned believe will indemnify the Bank in any losses on her suspended debt and the other debts due the bank and branches are believed to be well secured In answer to the enquiry what portions of the loans of the bank have been made to bank directors the undersigned refer to a statement made by the officers of the Bank and accompanying this report The amount due from bank directors was heretofore larger than it now is, and has been reduced by the going out of office of some who were largely indebted, the undersigned do not believe that the liability of the present directors is greater than might be safely extended to other individuals of equal number and responsibility not connected with the Bank The committee next proceeded to investigate the charge contained in the following portion of the resolution to wit ``also the character of the transaction between the acting fund commissioner and the President of the Bank'' in the negociation of the Bonds sold to constitute the stock owned by the state in that institution and if the Bonds at or since the time of their purchase by the Bank could not have been sold for cash at or above par and whether any money has been paid in to represent the stock of the state The answer of the officers of the Bank to this enquiry is that after fruitless efforts to sell the stock at par it was offered to the bank in payment of the subscription of the state stock and was accepted by that institution and that the Bonds have ever since been offered at par but have not been sold The amount of stock so sold to the Bank was $1765.000 and the sum of 335.000 Dollars was paid in cash making in all $2,000,000. While it is granted that the sale of the state bonds owned by the bank would have enabled that institution to enlarge her circulation and thereby accomodate more persons it is deemed very questionable whether in the present crisis the stockholders and note holders of the bank are not in a better condition than if the state bonds had been sold for the reason that they can be used to obtain funds either by sale or hypothecation The next inquiry is ``whether the bank has not dealt unfairly in declaring dividends and reporting means as available which are in reality unavailable and in bad Debts'' The question of the propriety or impropriety of dividends of the bank must depend on the amount of its bad debts as compared with its surplus fund and reserved profits. These latter the officers of the bank have stated on their oaths they believe to equal or exceed the former & the undersigned have no reason to differ from them in opinion on this subject Some of the committee are aware that their has been a great anxiety with some persons connected with the public works that the dividends should be as large as possible and were fearful that this influence might have operated on the directors but they have no evidence of such a result The last enquiry which the committee are directed to make is ``whether houses connected with some of the principle officers of the Bank have not been accomodated largely to the exclusion of others equaly solvent'' The undersigned feel it to be their duty to state without hesitation that there is not the slightest evidence to support a charge of this character The undersigned before passing on will offer some reflections upon the causes of the suspension of specie payments by the bank. It will be recollected that when the Banks of Phila. and New York suspended specie payments in 1837, that the western and southern Banks almost simultaneously followed in their train When the Phila. banks suspended specie payments last fall, many of the western and southern banks also found it necessary to close business. Their is a chain of connexion between the banks of the interior and those of the Atlantic cities which obliges the former to follow the course of the latter and the suspension of the banks located at the center of trade is felt by all the banks in the union This is not attributable to any organic defects of the institutions themselves but to the irresistable law of trade and exchange which cannot be controaled [ sic ] by country banks The position of our banks is doubly unfortunate[;] they have not only to guard against the accumulation of their paper in the eastern cities but have also to keep an eye upon Saint Louis, at which point much of the trade of the west centres When we super-add to those causes the fact, that the funds (mostly gold and silver) of the General Government collected in the land offices in this state have (with the exception of a limited deposite in the branch at Chicago) been transported to and deposited in the banks of Kentucky and the Bank of Missouri. It must therefore be admitted that the banks of this State have had a peculiarly difficult task to perform in keeping up the credit of their paper. Under this view of the subject unless it is first shewn that our banks had some agency in bringing about the suspension by the Banks of the Atlantic cities in 1837 & ' 39 your committee perceives but little cause to visit any very heavy denunciations upon our institutions for doing an act which they were urged to by the most imperious necessity An opinion as to the solvency of the Bank to meet and to pay all demands against it, will no doubt be expected from the committee. It will be perceived from the statement of the condition of the bank filed herewith, that her entire circulation amounts to $2,786.-315 and that her whole liabilities are $3.924.002.84/100 while she has on hand $2,464,750. of Illinois State Bonds--- $2.710.476 76/100 of notes Discounted and due from individuals to the Bank 440,182 10/100 Dollars of money loaned to individuals by the Bank and secured by mortgage on real estate--- Bills of Exchange $786.974 89/100 Real Estate 72 600.33/100 Dollars---due from other Banks. 435.624.27/100 dollars due by state of Illinois 141.-089 46/100 notes of other Banks 152.275 dollars--- of Gold and Silver Coin 473.869 32/100 dollars making in all 7.677.794 13/100 Dollars this sum your committee deems amply sufficient to indemnify not only note holders & other creditors of the bank but also to secure the State for all the Stock which she owns in the institution and in the event of the bank not being resuscitated your committee apprehend no danger of the state sustaining any loss upon its bank stock Before closing this report it is but an act of justice due from the undersigned to the officers of the parent bank to state, that they afforded the committee every facility in their power to aid them in a free & full investigation into the condition of the bank and into the conduct of its various officers. B. MONROE  of H R ORLANDO B. FICKLIN, JNO. D. WOOD} of the Sen A. LINCOLN

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Springfield, Jany. 21st. 1840.
A bill bringing on the congressional elections in this state, next summer, has passed the House of Representatives this minute.  As I think it will also pass the Senate, I take the earliest moment to advise you of it. I do not think any one of our political friends, wishes to push you off the track. Anticipating the introduction of this bill, I wrote you, for your feelings on the subject, several weeks since; but have received no answer. It may be, that my letter miscarried; if so, will you, on the receipt of this, write me what you think and feel about the matter. Nothing new, except I believe I have got our Truett  debt secured. I have Truetts note at twelve months, with his brother Myers as surety. Your friend, as ever--- A. LINCOLN

Amendments Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto an Act for Further Prosecution of the Illinois and Michigan Canal
January 22, 23, 1840
Amend the eighth section by adding there to the following, towit: ``nor upon any contracts except those existing at the passage of this act.'' Provided that contracts which may be transfered from one contractor to another, without any change in their terms, shall not be construed to be new contracts & Provided that no more than five hundred thousand dollars of said certificates shall at any one time be outstanding.

Remarks in the Illinois LegislatureConcerning the Illinois and Michigan Canal
January 22, 23, 1840
Mr. LINCOLN, from the select committee to which was referred the Canal bill,  reported the same back to the House, with the following amendment: ``the scrip hereby authorized to be issued, shall be applied to existing contracts.'' Mr. LINCOLN said that although he voted for its engrossment before, yet he did it somewhat reluctantly. He was under the impression that the scrip would be paid out for less than its nominal value; but as it was to be paid out for contracts made in view of money, and if paid with scrip at its nominal value, no loss would result therefrom; but on the contrary, the State would make something. Upon the scrip which is now propos[ed, to be issued, . . . would be . . .]  whereas, we would have to pay interest upon money. Contracts had been made when the prices for labor, provisions, &c., were high; and hence contractors were willing to take scrip, as they would not thereby sustain as much loss as they would, were they to abandon entirely their contracts. He thought that we should lose much by stopping the work on the Canal---that a mutual injury would result to the State by suspending all operations there. It would be, continued Mr. L., very much like stopping a skift in the middle of a river---if it was not going up, it would go down. The embankments upon the Canal would be washing away, and the excavations filling up. He, for these reasons, was for the bill as amended; and, in conclusion, would humbly express the hope that it might pass. Mr. LINCOLN  said he had not examined to see what amount of scrip would probably be needed. The principal point in his mind was this, that no body was obliged to take these certificates. It is altogether voluntary on their part, and if they apprehend it will fall on their hands, they will not take it. Further---the loss, if any there be, will fall on the citizens of that section of the country. This scrip is not going to circulate over an extensive range of country, but will be confined chiefly to the vicinity of the canal. Now we find the representatives of that section of the country are all in favor of the bill. When we propose to protect their interests, they say to us, leave us to take care of ourselves---we are willing to run this risk. And this is reasonable; we must suppose they are competent to protect their own interests, and it is only fair to let them do it.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Authorize Purchase of a House for the Use of the Governor
[January 24, 1840]
A bill for an act authorizing the purchase of a house for the use of the Governor. Sec: 1st. Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That the Auditor of Public Accounts be and he is hereby authorized to purchase a suitable house and lot, within the town of Springfield, for a residence for the Governor of the state, Provided the same shall not cost more than eight thousand dollars. Sec: 2nd. The Auditor shall issue his warrant on the Treasury for the amount agreed on by him for said purchase, in favour of the person or persons of whom said purchase shall have been made. Sec: 3rd. Before issuing his warrant as aforesaid, the Auditor shall particularly enquire into and ascertain that a clear and unencumbered title to the house and lot so purchased can be made; and moreover shall actually take a conveyance of such title to the Governor of the state of Illinois for the use of the People of said state. Sec: 4th. Upon the completion of such purchase and conveyance, the Auditor shall notify the Governor thereof; and after one month subsequent to said notice, no allowance for house rent, or traveling expenses shall be made to the Governor.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Dissolve the Bonds of Matrimony Between Nathaniel B. and Sarah Martin
[January 25, 1840]
A bill for an act to dissolve the bands of matrimony between Nathaniel B. Martin, and Sarah Martin his wife. Be it enacted by the people of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That the bands of matrimony existing between Nathaniel B. Martin and Sarah Martin, his wife, be, and they are hereby forever dissolved.

Resolution Introduced in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Election of a Treasurer of the Board of Canal Commissioners
[January 27, 1840]
Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring herein) that the two houses will meet in the Hall of the House of Representatives on tuesday the 28th. Inst. at 2 o'clock P.M and proceed to the election of a Treasurer of the Board of Canal Commissioners.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislaturein Relation to Taking of Depositions and in Relation to Menard and Logan Counties
[January 28-30, 1840]
A bill for an act relative to the taking of depositions, and to the Collector of Menard county. Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois represented in the General Assembly. That hereafter in any suit at law or in Equity wherein the defendant or defendants shall reside without the limits of this state, or shall have gone without the limits of this state with the intention of removing himself or themselves, or his or their personal property and effects without the limits of the same, and shall have no attorney known to the plaintiff or complainant within the limits of this state, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff or complainant in such suit to take depositions to be used in the same, in the same manner, as is now provided by law, excepting that the notice now required by law to be served on such defendant or defendants shall not be required to be given; Provided that in every such case the plaintiff or complainant shall, before taking such depositions, file with the clerk of the court wherein such suit shall be depending the affidavit of himself or some other credible person, stating that he verrily believes that said defendant or defendants resides without the limits of this state, or has gone beyond the limits of this state with the intention of removing himself, or his personal property or effects beyond the limits of the same, and has no known attorney residing in this state Sec: 2nd. That the Collector of Menard county be authorized to collect all taxes now due for the year 1839 1839 [ sic ] from the inhabitants of, or on real estate situated within that portion of Sangamon county, which lies within the following boundaries, towit: Begining at the South West corner of Section Three in Township Seventeen North of Range Six West, thence North four miles by the surveys; thence East ten miles by the surveys; thence South two miles by the surveys; thence West nine miles by the surveys; thence South two miles by the surveys; thence West one mile by the surveys to the begining.  Sec. 3rd. That said collection shall be made in accordance with the assessment heretofore made under the authority of Menard county; and said collector shall pay over the state revenue collected in said district to the state as in other cases; and shall pay one half colle[c]ted therefrom, for county purposes into the county Treasury of Sangamon county, and the other half, into the county Treasury of Menard county.

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Springfield, Jany. 29th. 1840
You recollect I mentioned to you that I had secured our Truett debt by taking a new note with Myers as security. You also recollect that the old note was in your individual name, and was sent to Gilbreath at Dixon's.  Myers came through Springfield and left the new note, and I sent an order to Truett  on Gilbreath, to deliver up the old note, which Gilbreath refuses to do, as appears by the enclosed letter from Truett, upon the ground that you , and not I, have control of the matter. Will you, on the receipt of this, immediately send an order to Truett at Dixon's on Gilbreath for the old note, framing it so that Truett will have to pay all cost and expense that may have accrued, before he gets the note. Dont neglect this, because Truett, as you will see by his letter, is verry anxious about it. The outlines of things here are--- Internal Improvement down--- Canal down--- Bank up--- Harrison going ahead--- Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN

Amendment Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto an Act in Relation to Promissory Notes
[January 30, 1840]
Provided that nothing herein shall be construed to legalize the taking of more than twelve per cent interest per annum in any case whatever.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning an Act to Modify the System of Internal Improvements
January 30, 1840
Mr. LINCOLN said, he thought this a question of sufficient importance to justify this last effort in behalf of a proposition, to save something to the State, from the general wreck. It was very true that similar propositions had before been voted down in this House by large majorities; but it might be a returning sense of justice, would induce this House to acknowledge, upon this last opportunity, that at least some portion of our Internal Improvements should be carried on. That after the immense debt, we have incurred in carrying these works almost to completion, at least one work calculated to yield something towards defraying its expense, should be finished and put in operation. Every body acknowledged that this much, if no more, should be done; and why not come up to the question here, with the same candor, that we do out of doors?

Campaign Circular from Whig Committee
January [31?], 1840
CONFIDENTIAL. To Messrs. --- Gentlemen:---In obedience to a resolution of the Whig State Convention,  we have appointed you the Central Whig Committee of your county. The trust confided to you will be one of watchfulness and labor: but we do hope the glory of having contributed to the overthrow of the corrupt powers that now control our beloved country, will be a sufficient reward for the time and labor you will devote to it. Our whig brethren throughout the Union have met in convention,  and after due deliberation and mutual concessions have elected candidates for the Presidency and Vice presidency, not only worthy of our cause, but worthy of the support of every true patriot, who would have our country redeemed, and her institutions honestly and faithfully administered. To overthrow the trained bands that are opposed to us, whose salaried officers are ever on the watch, and whose misguided followers are ever ready to obey their smallest commands, every Whig must not only know his duty, but must firmly resolve, whatever of time and labor it may cost, boldly and faithfully to do it. Our intention is to organize the whole State, so that every Whig can be brought to the polls in the coming presidential contest. We cannot do this, however, without your co-operation; and as we do our duty, so we shall expect you to do yours[.] After due deliberation, the following is the plan of organization, and the duties required of each county committee. 1st. To divide their county into small districts, and to appoint in each a sub-committee, whose duty it shall be to make a perfect list of all the voters in their respective districts, and to ascertain with certainty for whom they will vote. If they meet with men who are doubtful as to the man they will support, such voters should be designated in separate lines, with the name of the man they will probably support. 2nd. It will be the duty of said sub-committee to keep a CONSTANT WATCH on the DOUBTFUL VOTERS, and from time to time have them TALKED TO by those IN WHOM THEY HAVE THE MOST CONFIDENCE, and also to place in their hands such documents as will enlighten and influence them. 3d. It will also be their duty to report to you, at least once a month, the progress they are making, and on election days see that every Whig is brought to the polls. 4th. The sub-committees should be appointed immediately; and by the last of April, at least, they should make their first report. 5th. On the first of each month hereafter, we shall expect to hear from you. After the first report of your sub-committees, unless there should be found a great many doubtful voters, you can tell pretty accurately the manner in which your county will vote. In each of your letters to us, you will state the number of certain votes, both for and against us, as well as the number of doubtful votes, with your opinion of the manner in which they will be cast. 6th. When we hear from all the counties, we shall be able to tell with similar accuracy, the political complexion of the State. This information will be forwarded to you as soon as received. 7th. Enclosed is a prospectus for a newspaper  to be published until after the Presidential election. It will be SUPERINTENDED BY OURSELVES, and every Whig in the State MUST take it. It will be published so low that every one can afford it. YOU MUST RAISE A FUND AND FORWARD US FOR EXTRA COPIES---every county ought to send FIFTY or ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS,---and the copies will be forwarded to you for distribution among our POLITICAL OPPONENTS. The paper will be devoted exclusively to the great cause in which we are engaged. Procure subscriptions and forward them to us immediately.  8th. Immediately after any election in your county, you must inform us of its results; and as early as possible after any general election, we will give you the like information. 9th. A Senator in Congress is to be elected by our next Legislature. Let no local interests divide you, but select candidates that can succeed. 10th. Plan of operations will of course be CONCEALED FROM EVERY ONE except OUR GOOD FRIENDS, who of right ought to know them.  Trusting much in our good cause, the strength of our candidates, and the determination of the Whigs every where, to do their duty, we go to the work of organization in this State, confident of success[.] We have the numbers, and if properly organized and exerted, with the gallant HARRISON at our head, we shall meet our foes, and conquer them in all parts of the Union. Address your letters to Dr. A. G. Henry. A. G. HENRY, E. D. BAKER, R. F. BARRETT, J. F. SPEED.  A. LINCOLN,

Communication to the Readers ofThe Old Soldier
February 28, 1840
TO THE READERS OF THE OLD SOLDIER. Some time since the undersigned sent a Circular  to particular individuals in several Counties of this State, urging them to use their best exertions to organize, and form into ``battle array'' the friends of Gen. Harrison, for the approaching contest. This Circular we marked ``Confidential.'' We did so, because we knew, that nothing short of the utmost secrecy, on the part of even our own friends, could enable it to ``clear the clutches'' of the Post Office, and reach any tolerable portion of its points of destination. As we anticipated, it has been pirated from the mail, and published in the Van Buren papers. Of course, all copies of it, which have not reached their addresses, will not now be permitted to do so. We therefore urge upon our friends in those counties, which this circular has never reached, (if the paper containing this article shall ever reach them) to go to work and organize themselves in the most efficient manner, for routing the enemies of the country and of Gen. Harrison, from the councils of the nation. The Van Buren papers raise many objections to the Circular in question. They affect the greatest horror, that it should have been marked ``Confidential.'' Had they not better reserve their horror for the contemplation of the fact, that their friends ``robbed the mail'' to get hold of it? And does not the fact that they did thus rob the mail, justify, nay, even imperiously require, every honest man to use every possible precaution, to enable his communications to pas unembezzled through the post offices, to their destination? But, again, it is objected that we, the undersigned, are the editors of ``The Old Soldier,'' as it is urged appears from this confidential Circular. This assumption the Circular does not warrant. In it, we say ``the Old Soldier'' will be superintended by us. Of course we are responsible for its contents; and we desire to shun no part of the responsibility, arising from its management. But while we say this, we also say to the friends of Gen. Harrison every where, that they, as well as we, are the editors of ``the Old Soldier.'' And we now invite them---particularly those who have seen Gen. Harrison, where cowards dared not show their heads---where storms of ``leaden rain and iron hail'' carried death and desolation in their course---where his erect figure, stationed on the loftiest rampart, and seen from every part of the theatre of action; and his voice, rising in trumpet tones above the roaring of the death-dealing tempest,---gave ``form and spirit to the war''; them, we invite to aid us in filling its columns with such ``burning truths'' and ``confounding arguments'' as may sear the eye-balls, and stun the ears of the Old hero's thousand-tongued calumniators. What credit or discredit ``the Old Soldier'' may derive from our names , is not for us to determine. We have not thrust those names upon the public; but now that our enemies have, we only say: ``Then they are; let those assail them who can.'' Upon the authority of those names, (whether that authority be good or bad,) we assure the readers of ``the Old Soldier,'' that nothing shall appear in its columns, as facts , which we do not, on the fullest investigation in our power to make, believe to be true. No `` vile falsehood '' shall enter them. It is our intention, that our friends every where may, without fear of successful contradiction, repeat whatever they may find, stated as a fact , in the columns of ``the Old Soldier.'' But the Van Buren papers object to the friends of Gen. Harrison organizing. We urge that organization; and we insist that it is not for our opponents to inveigh against it. They set us the example of organization; and we, in self defence, are driven into it. If they now wish disbanding , let them again set the example. Let them disband their double-drilled-army of ``forty thousand office holders,'' a part of whose regular tactics it is, to pilfer letters and papers from the mails, lest the old soldiers, who have fought and bled with Gen. Harrison, may all learn that he is now a candidate for the Presidency. With our own friends, we justify---we urge---organization on the score of necessity. A disbanded yeomanry cannot successfully meet an organized soldiery. The old soldiers of the war of 1812-13-and '14, remember, that previous to that war, there was no organization amongst them; but that, immediately on learning that an organized foe was invading their land, they, too, organized---met---conquered---killed and drove the foe beyond the ``world of waters.'' To those old soldiers we say---An organized army of office-holders is now fitting out an expedition against your old commander. They are coming armed---(not with bristling steel, because that bedazzles their eyes---not with powder and balls, because the smell of sulphur offends their nostrils, but) with falsehood, slander, and detraction, upon the characters of yourselves and your chieftain, established in the hard and bloody conflicts with your country's invading enemies. That army too, must be met. Organization must again be had. We, your sons and younger brothers, will form the rank and file; you shall be the generals, and commanders-in-chief. Thus organized, we will meet, conquer and disperse Gen. Harrison's and the country's enemies, and place him in the chair, now disgraced by their effeminate and luxury-loving chief. A. G. HENRY, J. F. SPEED, R. F. BARRETT,* A. LINCOLN. E. D. BAKER, * Dr. BARRETT having taken the office of Fund Commissioner, does not think it proper for him to longer participate in the superintendence of the ``Old Soldier,'' and he, therefore, withdraws from it. 

To John T. Stuart
Springfield, March 1, 1840.
Dear Stuart: I have never seen the prospects of our party so bright in these parts as they are now. We shall carry this county by a larger majority than we did in 1836, when you ran against May.  I do not think my prospects individually are very flattering, for I think it is probable I shall not be permitted to be a candidate; but the party ticket will succeed triumphantly. Subscriptions to the ``Old Soldier'' pour in without abatement. This morning I took from the post-office a letter from Dubois  inclosing the names of sixty subscribers; and on carrying it to Francis, I found he had received one hundred and forty more from other quarters by the same day's mail. That is but an average specimen of every day's receipts. Yesterday Douglas, having chosen to consider himself insulted by something in the ``Journal,'' undertook to cane Francis in the street.  Francis caught him by the hair and jammed him back against a market-cart, where the matter ended by Francis being pulled away from him. The whole affair was so ludicrous that Francis and everybody else (Douglas excepted) have been laughing about it ever since. I send you the names of some of the Van Buren men who have come out for Harrison about town, and suggest that you send them some documents: Moses Coffman (he let us appoint him a delegate yesterday), Aaron Coffman, George Gregory, H. M. Briggs,---Johnson  (at Birchall's book-store), Michael Glynn,---Armstrong  (not Hosea, nor Hugh, but a carpenter), Thomas Hunter, Moses Pilcher (he was always a Whig, and deserves attention), Matthew Crowder, Jr., Greenberry Smith, John Fagan, George Fagan, William Fagan (these three fell out with us about Early, and are doubtful now),  John Cartmel, Noah Rickard, John Rickard, Walter Marsh (the foregoing should be addressed at Springfield). Also send some to Solomon Miller and John Auth at Saulsbury;  also to Charles Harper, Samuel Harper, and B. C. Harper; and T. J. Scroggins, John Scroggins,  at [Mount] Pulaski, Logan County. Speed says he wrote you what Jo. Smith  said about you as he passed here. We will procure the names of some of his people here and send them to you before long. Speed also says you must not fail to send us the New York journal he wrote for some time since. Evan Butler  is jealous that you never send your compliments to him. You must not neglect him next time. Your friend, as ever, A. LINCOLN.

Notice of an Election
March 18, 1840
Notice is hereby given , THAT in pursuance of law an election will be held in the City of Springfield, on the third Monday of April next, for the election of one Mayor of the City, and one Alderman from each Ward. The election in the First Ward shall be held at the house of W. W. Watson. The election in the Second Ward shall be held at the house of Michael Glynn. The election in the Third Ward shall be held at the Court Room. The election in the Fourth Ward shall be held at the American House. Should the city charter not be accepted by the citizens, the above notice will be null and void. The polls for said elections will be opened at 8 A. M. and closed at 12 M. Springfield, March 18, 1840. P. C. CANEDY, P. C. LATHAM, J. WHITNEY, A. LINCOLN, SIMEON FRANCIS, Clerk. J. KLEINE, Trustees.

Notice of an Election
March 18, 1840
Notice is hereby given , THAT, in pursuance of law, an election will be held at the Court Room, in the town of Springfield, on the first Monday of April next for the election of five Trustees for said town. Also, that in pursuance of a law of this State, approved February 3d, 1840, incorporating the city of Springfield, the votes of the citizens of Springfield, will be received on the same day at the same place, as aforesaid, for the adoption or rejection of the aforesaid city charter or law incorporating the town of Springfield. The polls for said elections shall be opened at 8 A.M. and closed at 2 P.M. Springfield, March 18, 1840. P. C. CANNEDY, A. LINCOLN, J. WHITNEY, P. C. LATHAM, SIMEON FRANCIS, Clerk. J. KLEINE, Trustees.

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Springfield, March 26 1840
In relation to the Kinzie matter,  I can say no more than this, that the check was taken from the Bank by you, and on the same day you made a note in our memorandum book, stating you had sent it by mail to Kinzie; but there is no memorandum concerning it at Irwin's  Kinzie has ceased writing about it, and consequently I have some hope that he has received it. We have had a convention for nominating candidates in this county. Baker  was put on the track for the Senate, and Bradford,  Brown  of the Island Grove, Josiah Francis, Darnielle,  & I for the House. Ninian  was verry much hurt at not being nominated; but he has become tolerably well reconciled. I was much, verry much, wounded myself at his being left out. The fact is, the country delegates made the nominations as they pleased; and they pleased to make them all from the country, except Baker & me, whom they supposed necessary to make stump speeches. Old Col. Elkin  is nominated for Sheriff. That's right. The Locos have no candidates on the track yet, except Dick Taylor  for the Senate. Last saturday he made a speech, and May  answered him. The way May let the wind out of him, was a perfect wonder. The court room was verry full, and neither you nor I ever saw a crowd in this county so near all one side, and all feeling so good before. You will see a short account of it in the Journal. LINCOLN Japh. Ball  has come out for Harrison. Ain't that a caution?

To Richard F. Barrett
Dear Doctor: Springfield, Ills. April 17th. 1840
Do not fail to procure a copy of the Journal of the New York Convention of 1821. I sometimes see the Debates of the New York Convention refered to, and I am not sure whether the Journal & Debates are one & the same, or distinct. If they are distinct, try to procure both. I would not miss your getting them for a hundred dollars. If they can not be found in New York City,  they certainly can in Albany. I would be glad if you could also procure the Journal of the New York Senate for the fall session of 1812. If you get the Journals mentioned, bring them with you on your return, unless you can send them sooner by some entirely safe conveyance. I attended the Carlinville & Bellville meetings and find things going on swimingly in both places. The City Charter is accepted by 226 to 121. Nothing else new. Write me on the receipt of this. Your friend, as ever A. LINCOLN P.S. Your Brother  has been nominated for the Legislature by the Locos, after all. Whether he will accept or not is not yet certain; but I presume he will. A.L.

Bill to Sangamon County
[May, 1840?]
County of Sangamon To Stuart & Lincoln Dr. To use of Room for juries from May 1839 to May 1840 $36.00

Speech at Tremont, Illinois
May 2, 1840
Immediately after dinner, the large Court House was filled to overflowing, and the debate was opened by Mr. Lincoln, who after some general and appropriate remarks concerning the design and object of all Governments, drew a vivid picture of our prosperous and happy condition previous to the time of the war which was waged against the U.S. Bank, the constitutionality, as well as the great utility of which he vindicated in a most triumphant manner. He next turned his attention to the Sub-Treasury, the hideous deformity and injurious effects of which were exposed in a masterly style. He then reviewed the political course of Mr. Van Buren, and especially his votes in the New York Convention in allowing Free Negroes the right of suffrage, and his Janus-faced policy in relation to the war. In this part of his speech Mr. Lincoln was particularly felicitous, and the frequent and spontaneous bursts of applause from the People, gave evidence that their hearts were with him. He related many highly amusing anecdotes which convulsed the house with laughter; and concluded his eloquent address with a successful vindication of the civil and military reputation of the Hero of Tippecanoe.

To Jonathan G. Randall
Jonathan G. Randall, Springfield, Ill., Rushville, Ill. June 16, 1840.
My Dear Sir---Your son Richard has just told me of his great loss. The rascally Whigs, through a mistake, took his trunk containing all his clothes off to Chicago, and his heart is almost broken. Make him up some new ones just as you know he needs and make his heart glad. Yours respectfully A. LINCOLN.

Receipt to John Hogan,Commissioner of Public Works

Received Springfield June 17th 1840 of John Hogan Comr of the Board of Public Works, One Hundred and fifty Dollars in full for the above order of the Board Pub Works. $150. SCHUYLER STRONG A. LINCOLN

To William G. Anderson
W.G. Anderson Lawrenceville, Oct. 31st. 1840.
Dear Sir Your note of yesterday is received.  In the difficulty between us, of which you speak, you say you think I was the aggressor. I do not think I was. You say my ``words imported insult.'' I meant them as a fair set-off to your own statements, and not otherwise; and in that light alone I now wish you to understand them. You ask for my ``present'' feelings on the subject.'' I entertain no unkind feeling to you, and none of any sort upon the subject, except a sincere regret that I permitted myself to get into such an altercation. Yours, &c A. LINCOLN

Resolution Introduced in Illinois Legislature
November 24, 1840
Resolved , That the Clerk of this House inform the Senate that they have met, elected Wm. Lee D. Ewing their Speaker, John Calhoun their principal Clerk, George Davis their Assistant Clerk, Robert Smith their Engrossing and Enrolling Clerk, Wm. C. Murphy principal Door keeper, and Benjamin Roberts Assistant Door-keeper, and are now ready to proceed to Legislative business.

Remarks in Illinois Legislatureon Printing of Governor's Message
November 26, 1840
Mr. Lincoln said he had moved for the ayes and noes on this motion to print 8,000 copies, from a higher consideration than the saving of 30 or 40 dollars, which the member from Cook [Ebenezer Peck] had said would be the only additional expense. He would grant that 30 or 40 dollars were not worth quarreling about. But when we reflected, that if we now quarrel about 40 dollars, and it is nevertheless allowed, would not the presumption be very strong, that hereafter, many such sums, will be allowed without a quarrel, and without objection. Some experience in this matter had convinced him that it was altogether useless to print so much as we had even been in the habit of doing. He would appeal to the experience of every member who had served in the Legislature if one half of them were ever distributed. No sir; from the time they are printed, until the end of the session, they can be found every where in places nameable and unnameable---in short, every where, but amongst the people.

Remarks in Illinois Legislature Concerning Election Frauds
November 28, 1840
Mr. Lincoln said without granting for a moment the truth of any of the gentleman's charges and surmises, from Gallatin yet he was willing for the purposes of his Resolution, to assume that all these stupendous frauds of which the gentleman had been speaking, had been committed; and if so it showed the necessity of the adoption of the Resolution offered by himself. If it was a fact that Legislative action was necessary to protect the elective franchise from abuse in this state, he was willing to go as far as any,---and to provide any punishment within the bounds of humanity, for those who could abuse such a right. It was for that reason he had submitted his resolution. He was afraid of no investigation that might be instituted into the recent election in this state, for himself or his friends. But he could see no good that could result from such an investigation as that proposed by the gentleman. He had every reason to believe that all this hue and cry about frauds, was entirely groundless, and raised for other than honest purposes. As to the instance which the gentleman had given of the Steamboat on the Wabash river,  he would state that he was near the Wabash at the time and place mentioned by the gentleman, and after making diligent inquiry for a Steam Boat, could hear of none. Again, he believed as much fraud had been charged to have taken place in Sangamon county as any where else---he was willing for the purpose of testing the truth and character of these charges, that a special investigation should be instituted into the election in this county, that every vote should be scrutinized and the result, what ever it might be should be taken as conclusive as to whether these charges were well founded or not. This investigation would cost the State but little;---it would be here, where we had every facility for enquiring into the facts, without expense, and here too where the greatest frauds are alleged to have been perpetrated, and surely no gentleman who was honest in the belief of these frauds, could object to the proposition.

Resolution Introduced in Illinois Legislature on Election Frauds
[November 28, 1840]
Resolved, that so much of the Governors Message as relates to fraudulent voting, and other fraudulent practices at elections, be refered to the committee on elections, with instructions to said committee to prepare and report to this House, a Bill for such an act as may, in their judgement, afford the greatest possible protection of the elective franchise, against all frauds of all sorts whatever.

Resolution Introduced in Illinois Legislature Concerning Teachers' Examinations
[December 2, 1840]
Resolved, that the Committee on Education be instructed to enquire into the expediency of providing by law for the examination, as to their qualifications, of persons offering themselves as School-teachers, and that no teacher shall receive any part of the Public School Funds, who shall not have successfully passed such examination; and that they report by Bill or otherwise.

Remarks in Illinois Legislature Concerning Petition of Norman H. Purple
December 4, 1840
Mr. LINCOLN moved that the reports  be referred to a committee of the whole House, and that the House do now resolve itself into committee of the whole on the subject. . . . Mr. LINCOLN considered the question of the highest importance, whether an individual had a right to sit in this House or not. The course he should propose would be to take up the evidence and decide upon the evidence and decide upon the facts seriatim. . . . Mr. DRUMMOND  was opposed to taking up: he wished for time to investigate the matter thoroughly. . . . [Mr. LINCOLN said it would afford him pleasure to oblige his friend from Joe Davies, (Mr. Drummond) but he thought his objections to taking up the matter now, were not well founded. His objection was, that he had not heard the testimony. This is the very reason why we should now go into the testimony---we should go into it like a jury without prepossessions, and be the better prepared to arrive at correct conclusions from the testimony. The gentleman had deprecated party feeling. He confessed he had this much feeling about it, honestly. The gentleman who held his seat, was a political friend of his, and if, after an investigation, it is shown that he is fairly the representative, he should feel gratified. But he did not believe that his mind would be swayed by party feeling, from deciding honestly and justly in this case. The sooner we could decide this matter, the better---there was less party excitement now than there would be to-morrow, and less to-morrow, than there would be the day after.]  Mr. LINCOLN thought that the question had better be gone into now. In courts of law Jurors were required to decide on evidence without previous study or examination. They were required to know nothing of the subject untill the evidence was laid before them for their immediate decision. He thought that the heat of party would be augmented by delay. The Speaker called Mr. L. to order as being irrelevant no mention had been made of party-heat. Mr. DRUMMOND said he had spoken only of debate. Mr. LINCOLN asked what caused the heat, if it was not party? Mr. L. concluded by urging that the question would be decided now better than hereafter, and he thought with less heat and excitement.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureAmending a Bill Providing Interest on State Debt
December 4, 1840
Mr. LINCOLN moved to strike out the bill and amendment and insert the following: AN ACT providing for the payment of interest on the State debt. SEC. 1st. Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois, represented in the General Assembly, That the Governor be authorized and required to issue, from time to time, such an amount of State bonds, to be called the ``Illinois Interest Bonds,'' as may be absolutely necessary for the payment of the interest upon the lawful debts of the State, contracted before the passage of this act. SEC. 2d Said bonds shall bear interest at the rate of per cent annum, payable half yearly at and be reimbursable in years from their respective issuings. SEC. 3d. That the State's portion of the tax hereafter arising from all lands which were not taxable in the year one thousand eight hundred and forty, is hereby set apart as an exclusive fund for the payment of interest on the said ``Illinois Interest Bonds''; and the faith of the State is hereby pledged, that said fund shall be applied to that object and to no other, except at any time there should be a surplus, in which case such surplus shall become a part of the general funds of the Treasury. SEC. 4th. That hereafter the sum of thirty cents for each hundred dollars' worth of all taxable property shall be paid into the State Treasury; and no more than forty cents for each hundred dollars worth of such taxable property shall be levied and collected for county purposes. Mr. LINCOLN said he submitted this proposition with great diffidence. He had felt his share of the responsibility devolving upon us in the present crisis, and after revolving in his mind every scheme which seemed to afford the least prospect of relief, he submitted this as the result of his own deliberations. The details of the bill might be imperfect, but he relied upon the correctness of its general features. By the plan proposed in the original bill, of hypothecating our bonds, he was satisfied we could not get along more than two or three months before some other step would be necessary---another session would have to be called, and new provisions made. It might be objected that these bonds would not be saleable, and the money could not be raised in time. He was no financier, but he believed these bonds thus secured, would be equal to the best in market. A perfect security was provided for the interest, and it was this characteristic that inspired confidence and made bonds saleable. If there was any distrust, it could not be because enough had not been promised; it must be because our means of fulfilling our promises were distrusted. He believed it would have the effect to raise our other bonds in market. There was another objection to this plan, which applied to the original bill, and that was as to impropriety of borrowing money to pay interest on borrowed money---that we are hereby paying compound interest. To this he would reply, that if it were a fact that our population and wealth were increasing in a ratio greater than the increased interest hereby incurred, then this was not a good objection. If our increasing means would justify us in deferring to a future time the resort to taxation, then we had better pay compound interest, than resort to taxation now. He was satisfied that, by a direct tax now, money enough could not be collected to pay our accruing interest. The bill proposed to provide in this way for interest not otherwise provided for. It was not intended to apply to those bonds, for the interest on which, a security had already been provided. He hoped the House would seriously consider the proposition. He had no pride in its success, as a measure of his own, but submitted it to the wisdom of the House, with the hope, that if there was any thing objectionable in it, it would be pointed out and amended.  Mr. LINCOLN replied at considerable length, and repeated his former arguments in favor of the amendment offered by himself. In conclusion, Mr. L. said that his plan had been termed an expedient. He considered this an unfortunate expression for those who advocated the original bill. That [was?] emphatically an expedient---a mere shift, which could but answer a temporary purpose, and might lead to further difficulty.  Mr. Lincoln went into the reasons which appeared to him to render this plan preferable to that of hypothecating the State bonds. By this course we could get along till the next meeting of the Legislature, which was of great importance. To the objection which might be urged that, these interest bonds could not be cashed, he replied, that if our other bonds could, much more could these which offered a perfect security, a fund being irrevocably set aside to provide for their redemption. To another objection, that we should be paying compound interest he would reply, that the rapid growth and increase of our resources was in so great a ratio as to outstrip the difficulty; that his object was to do the best that could be done in the present emergency; all agreed that the faith of the State must be preserved; this plan appeared to him preferable to an hypothecation of bonds, which would have to be redeemed and the interest paid. How this was to be done he could not see; therefore he had after turning the matter over in every way devised this measure, which would carry us on till the next Legislature. 

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Provide for Payment of Interest on the Public Debt
[December 7, 1840]
Sec: 1st. Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That hereafter, in addition to the revenue now raised by taxation, there shall be levied and collected, for state purposes, a tax at the rate of ten cents on each one hundred dollars worth of all property. Sec: 2nd. Said additional revenue, so raised, shall be set apart exclusively for the payment of interest on the state indebtednes---and be called the ``Interest Fund'' Sec: 3rd. That the minimum valuation of all lands for the purpose of taxation, shall be four dollars per acre. And each assessor, shall, in addition to the oath now required by law, be required to swear particularly, that he will, in no instance, value any land at four dollars per acre, that he, in his conscience, believes to be worth more. Sec: 4th. The Governor shall from time to time issue such an amount of state bonds, to be called the ``Illinois Interest Bonds'' as may be absolutely necessary to raise funds for the payment of interest on the state debts, that there is no other means of paying---and also sufficient to redeem all state bonds now hypothecated. Sec: 5th. Said Interest Bonds shall be sold by the Fund Commissioner, for the best price they will command, and the proceeds by him faithfully applied to the foregoing objects Sec: 6th. Said Bonds shall be reimbursable after the year 1865, and bear interest at the rate of six per cent per annum, payable half yearly. Sec: 7th. A sufficiency of the said ``Interest Fund'' is hereby irrevocably pledged, for the payment of interest upon the said ``Illinois Interest Bonds'' and the same shall be applied to that object in preference to all other objects.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Unfinished Business of the Last Session
December 7, 1840
Mr. TURNEY  offered a resolution, that the unfinished business of the last session of the Legislature be taken from the files, and placed in the same stage of forwardness in this session of the Legislature, that it occupied at the adjournment of the former session. Mr. LINCOLN demanded the ayes and noes. . . .  Mr. LINCOLN would state why he had called the ayes and noes on the resolution. If it were a fact that there was no illegality in the proposed measure, then it was certainly desirable on the grounds of expedience, that the resolution should be adopted. But our constitution had provided that every bill should be read three times on three different days, unless three-fourths should dispense with the rules, before it became a law. Now, was it not a matter of serious doubt whether this House could take up a bill which had been twice read during the last session and by reading it once now, pass it into a law?

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Payment of Interest on the Public Debt
December 11, 1840
Mr. LINCOLN said he was already committed to the principle contained in the amendment proposed by the gentleman from Morgan.  The only difference between the measure he had formerly proposed, and that now proposed by the gentleman, was that by his plan, a provision was made for increasing our means for defraying the ordinary expenses of the State, as well as to meet our accruing interest. It was just as bad to be bankrupt in one respect as in the other, and while we were adjusting the one, the other had as well be attended to at the same time.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Payment of Interest on State Debt
December 12, 1840
Mr. LINCOLN had thought at first that some permanent provision ought to have been made for the bonds to be hypothecated. He was in favor of such a permanent fund, but he was soon convinced that if we connect with the question at this moment matters of finance, of revenue and taxation, nothing could be done. He was willing to go for the naked proposition, simply to pay the interest due. Mr. L. therefore, now proposed to adopt this amendment, without clogging it with revenue questions. He wished to see by a direct vote if the house would adopt the naked proposition. He for one was for it; if any details required amendment, it could be done hereafter.

Amendments Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto an Act to Vacate Town Plat of Livingston
[December 12, 1840]
Amend the Bill by adding the following additional sections, towit: Sec. 2nd. That the town plat of the town of Cicero in the county of Sangamon be vacated Provided that John Latham and Archibald Constant, or the heirs of them or either of them, be the sole proprietors of said town at the passage of this act. Sec: 3rd. That Blocks numbered Six, Seven, eight, and nine, of the Plat of the town of Caledonia in the county of Putnam, are hereby vacated, Provided that P. G. Young be the sole proprietor of said Blocks at the passage of this act. Sec: 4. That the south end of Charles Street from first to Second South Streets in Coleman's addition to the Town of Belleville in the County of St. Clair is hereby vacated.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Bill to Provide Payment of Interest on the Public Debt
December 14, 1840
Mr. LINCOLN wished to know if there was any provision providing for the increase of the State Revenue; we had no funds to set aside out of that Revenue, which was not more than enough for present requirements. Mr. L explained how he had contrived that the measure he had proposed on a former occasion would not take away from the necessary supplies.

To John T. Stuart
Springfield, December 17, 1840.
Dear Stuart: McRoberts  was elected senator yesterday. The vote stood: McRoberts, seventy-seven; Cyrus Edwards, fifty; E. D. Baker, one; absent, three. This affair of appointment to office is very annoying---more so to you than to me, doubtless. I am, as you know, opposed to removals to make places for our friends. Bearing this in mind, I express my preference in a few cases, as follows: For marshal, first, John Dawson; second, Dr. B. F. Edwards. For postmaster here, Dr. Henry;  Carlinville, Joseph C. Howell. There is no question of the propriety of removing the postmaster at Carlinville. I have been told by so many different persons as to preclude all doubt of its truth, that he boldly refused to deliver from his office during the canvass all documents franked by Whig members of Congress. Yours, LINCOLN.

Resolution Introduced in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Expenditures for Public Printing
December 19, 1840
Resolved , That a select committee be appointed to enquire into the causes which have produced the very large expenditure for the item of public printing, and they be instructed to report a bill to the House having for its object the reduction of that item of expenditure, if in their judgment such reduction can be had without detriment to the public interest.

Discussion in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Expenditures for Public Printing
December 19, 1840
Mr LINCOLN offered for adoption a resolution for a select committee to enquire into the causes of the large amount of the item of public printing, and to enquire into the possibility of reducing the expense &c. Mr. LINCOLN in offering this resolution distinctly stated that he contemplated and intended no attack on any individual: his only object was to ascertain if it might be in the power of the House to reduce this heavy item of public expenditure. Mr BENTLEY  suggested that the committee on public accounts and expenditures was the proper committee to entrust with this enquiry, and moved to amend accordingly. Mr LINCOLN objected to the shuffling off of responsibility, and said that as for himself, he would prefer not to be on the select committee to be appointed. He was not inclined to believe that more printing was done than was ordered, or that more was charged for than the law allowed. He was disposed to believe if there was any fault, it was at our own door. He had just read the message of the Governor of Indiana, in which he called the attention of their Legislature to the enormous expenditure of 12,000 dollars for public printing. Thus it would be seen that in our sister state, with a population doubling ours, 12,000 was called an enormous expenditure, whilst we, with only half the population, and doubly more embarrassed, were paying $23,000 for the same object! So far was he from wishing to make this matter a party business, that he would distinctly say, it was his desire that he himself should not be placed upon the committee to be appointed. Mr ORMSBEE  referred the House to a resolution now before the committee of which he was chairman, and which covered the whole ground of the resolution now offered. Mr OLDS  said he could view this resolution in no other light than as an effort to get up political capital; it must be evident that this was the sole motive of bringing forward such a proposition at such a time as this, when gentlemen reflect that a resolution for an inquiry upon this very subject had already been committed to one of the standing committees of the House. What, he would ask, was the use of the Speakers appointing committees, if gentlemen should be permitted to take out of their hands the proper and legitimate objects submitted to them, in order to get up special committees for the mere purpose of making flaming reports intended to produce false impressions among the people. He (Mr O) was as strenuous an advocate of economy as the gentleman could be who had offered this resolution, but he must say that it appeared somewhat suspicious to him that this resolution should be bro't forward at this time. The House must well remember that the item of printing expense has been incurred mainly if not altogether by the party which is known as the whig party. How is it, that if they are sincere in their present movement, they did not make enquires and aim at a curtailment of expenses when they had a majority in the House? The very fact that they did not, plainly proved to his mind what was the true object and intent of this resolution. He would therefore oppose it, not because he was willing to sustain any unnecessary or profuse expenditure---far from it; but because he considered it an unnecessary and wanton waste both of time and money to take up such a resolution as this, when already there was before the House a resolution of the very same nature, having the same object in view, and fully adequate to every purpose required. He would therefore move to lay the resolution on the table. Mr O subsequently withdrew his motion to afford Mr Lincoln an opportunity to explain. Mr LINCOLN, in reply to the gentleman from Macoupin, said that the gentleman was a stranger to him, as he had never been introduced to him, but he hoped the gentleman would give him the credit of being candid in the statement of the motives which had induced him to offer this resolution; he would repeat, that he had no motive which he had not expressed; he had not introduced this resolution in a fault finding spirit, he was only desirous of doing his duty, and in reply to the gentleman from Scott he would say that if he considered it as a slur on his committee he would candidly and sincerely assure him that he (Mr L) did not mean or contemplate any such thing. His view was that if a change could be brought about advantageous to the people, it was our duty to set about the correction of abuses, and he would ask if this was not becoming and honest to the people of the country? He had put the resolution into its present form because he considered that the resolution offered some days ago did not cover all the ground: he was for bringing in the best bill that could be brought in, on the subject: if the gentleman from Macoupin thought otherwise, and supposed he (Mr L) was for making an attack on the public printer, he hoped the House would believe him when he said that he did not believe that the public printer got more work or more pay than the law allowed him, or that he made more than he was warranted by that law. Mr L had proposed a select committee, because he thought it could be done without casting imputations on the committee, which had been referred to by the gentleman from Scott. Mr L had no right to think that it had not been as faithful in the performance of its duties as any other committee. If gentlemen would reflect that the appointment of the select committee as proposed would be within the power of the Speaker, he thought that would afford a sufficient guarantee that no political movement had been contemplated by him.

Discussion in Illinois Legislatureof Bill for Relief of William Dormady
December 21, 1840
Mr. LINCOLN said, as wholesale charges of fraud had been dealt out by the gentleman from Cook, which involved many of his constituents, he felt it his duty to say something in regard to this case. It was not true, as the gentleman had stated, that the petitioner had been defrauded through the chicanery of the law, or of the courts. He would inform the House that since this Legislature had met, the naked question of fact, of the actual destruction of these notes, accompanied by any question of law, had been submitted to a jury, of the petitioner's own choice, and that a majority of this jury had solemnly decided that it was an attempt on the part of Dormady to impose upon the Bank. Under such circumstances, was it not assuming too much for the gentleman from Cook to get up here and tell us, without examination on his part, that the facts were as he had stated them, and that there was fraud and perjury on the part of the Bank, the court, and the jury? Mr. MURPHY, in reply, said, it was somewhat strange the gentleman should impute fraud to one of his own constituents. He supposed Mr. Dormady was a loco, and did not vote for the gentleman, (Mr. Lincoln) which accounted for his offering the petition. He did not charge the jury with perjury---it was nothing unusual for a jury to disagree about a just claim, especially where they had the instructions of a judge to help them, against right. It might be that Mr. Dormady was unable to procure such testimony as was necessary in a court of law. Mr. M. recapitulated the circumstances of the case which he contended were sufficient to justify the House in passing the bill. Mr. LINCOLN said, he did not know whether Mr. D. voted for him or not---he presumed he did not. If there were those in this House who thought this fact would have any influence on his conduct in regard to this bill, he should not stop to enlighten them as to his motives; he was careless of the opinion of such. The gentleman from Cook persisted in reciting what he termed the facts of this case. He would say to the House that the trial, to which he had before alluded, was presided over by Judge Breese, whom the gentleman would not charge with partiality to the Bank---that this jury was composed in part by Mr. D.'s own political friends---that he had able counsel to assist him, and that upon the naked question, as to whether these notes were burnt or not, a majority of that jury had determined, after hearing under oath all the testimony, and the arguments of counsel, that these notes were not burnt. And yet the gentleman, without investigation, assumed that for granted, which the jury found otherwise, and upon this assumption charged fraud and dishonesty upon the Bank, and all who had any thing to do with the case. He thought it better that one man should rest under the imputation of fraud than one hundred.

Remarks in Illinois Legislature Concerning Apportionment
January 7, 1841
Mr. Lincoln said there was always in agreeing upon the ratio of an apportionment, no number we could fix upon that could suit all. Our counties ranged in population from 750 to 16,000. If we adopt the idea of the gentleman from Hamilton, and give each county a representative, we must begin with the county which has 750 inhabitants; and as the republican principle of representation according to numbers, will not be denied as proper for the basis of our action, we must then give a representative, according to the gentleman from Hamilton (Mr. Carpenter) for every 750 in the state. This by calculating, would be found to give a house of representatives of about 650 members. Such a proposition he was satisfied would not be tolerated by the house. He was disposed to go for the resolution as it came from the senate.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Commemoration of the Battle. of New Orleans
January 8, 1841
Mr. LINCOLN said that as that jumping scrape had become so celebrated it appeared necessary that he should say something about it. The Speaker called Mr. Lincoln to order. Mr. LINCOLN said that as to jumping, he should jump when he pleased and no one should hinder him. He thought this Resolution ought to pass. Mr. L. proceeded to advocate it, as a national subject, not on party grounds: he was proud of the victory of New-Orleans, and the military fame of Gen. Jackson, though he could never find in his heart to support him as a politician. He had sat for 6 years in the Legislature, and this day had always been observed as a matter of course, with no view whatever to politics.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning a Burlesque Petition
January 9, 1841
Mr. LINCOLN thought as the subject had come up, and seemed likely to be a painful one, the best course would be to dispose of the matter in a manner the least painful. He would be sorry to see a resolution of this kind pass, calculated to wound the feelings of him who had presented the petition. He hoped the resolution would be so modified. Mr. LINCOLN then moved to strike out that portion of the resolution requiring the petition to be returned to the member presenting it.

Speech in Illinois Legislature Concerning Apportionment
[January 9, 1841?]
Mr. Lincoln replied. He appealed to every old member in the House, if it was not a fact, that when this body consisted of but fifty five members,  business was conducted with twice the facility that it now was. The reason was obvious enough to any reflecting mind. It required double the journalizing and double the length of time to call and record every vote which was put to the House; but a stronger reason was, that amongst ninety members the proposition of members, who, in the language of the gentleman from Monroe, (Mr. Bissell)  were disposed to protract business, was just double that in a House of half the number. It was perfectly plain that if each of the ninety-one members, now on this floor, make speeches on any subject, that it would require just double the time of half that number. The gentleman from Monroe, (Mr. Bissell) accused his friend from St. Clair, (Mr. Trumbull)  of attaching some peculiar magic to the number 100. He did not understand his objection to exceeding that number to arise from any magic in it, but from the fact that it was large enough, and expensive enough for any legislative body. The gentleman had accused old women of being partial to the number 9; but this he presumed was without foundation. A few years since, it would be recollected by the House, that the delegation from this county were dubbed, by way of eminence the ``long nine,'' and by way of further distinction, he had been called the ``longest'' of the nine. Now, said Mr. L. I desire to say to my friend from Monroe (Mr. Bissell) that if any woman, old or young, ever thought there was any peculiar charm in this distinguished specimen of number 9, I have, as yet, been so unfortunate as not to have discovered it, (loud applause.). 

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Springfield, Jany. 20th. 1841
I have had no letter from you since you left. No matter for that. What I wish now is to speak of our Post-Office. You know I desired Dr. Henry  to have that place when you left; I now desire it more than ever. I have, within the last few days, been making a most discreditable exhibition of myself in the way of hypochondriaism  and thereby got an impression that Dr. Henry is necessary to my existence. Unless he gets that place he leaves Springfield. You therefore see how much I am interested in the matter. We shall shortly forward you a petition in his favour signed by all or nearly all the Whig members of the Legislature, as well as other whigs. This, together with what you know of the Dr.'s position and merits I sincerely hope will secure him the appointment. My heart is verry much set upon it. Pardon me for not writing more; I have not sufficient composure to write a long letter. As ever yours A. LINCOLN

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Jany. 23rd. 1841- Springfield, Ills.
Yours of the 3rd. Inst. is recd. & I proceed to answer it as well as I can, tho' from the deplorable state of my mind at this time,  I fear I shall give you but little satisfaction. About the matter of the congressional election, I can only tell you, that there is a bill now before the Senate adopting the General Ticket system;  but whether the party have fully determined on it's adoption is yet uncertain. There is no sign of opposition to you among our friends, and none that I can learn among our enemies; tho', of course, there will be, if the Genl. Ticket be adopted. The Chicago American, Peoria Register, & Sangamo Journal, have already hoisted your flag upon their own responsibility; & the other whig papers of the District are expected to follow immediately. On last evening there was a meeting of our friends at Butler's;  and I submitted the question to them & found them unanamously in favour of having you announced as a candidate. A few of us this morning, however, concluded, that as you were already being announced in the papers, we would delay announcing you, as by your own authority for a week or two. We thought that to appear too keen about it might spur our opponents on about their Genl. Ticket project. Upon the whole, I think I may say with certainty, that your reelection is sure, if it be in the power of the whigs to make it so. For not giving you a general summary of news, you must pardon me; it is not in my power to do so. I am now the most miserable man living. If what I feel were equally distributed to the whole human family, there would not be one cheerful face on the earth. Whether I shall ever be better I can not tell; I awfully forebode I shall not. To remain as I am is impossible; I must die or be better, it appears to me. The matter you speak of on my account, you may attend to as you say, unless you shall hear of my condition forbidding it. I say this, because I fear I shall be unable to attend to any bussiness here, and a change of scene might help me. If I could be myself, I would rather remain at home with Judge Logan. I can write no more. Your friend, as ever--- A. LINCOLN

Speech in Illinois Legislatureon Bill to Provide Payment for Work on State House
January 25, 1841
Mr. LINCOLN addressed the House in support of the bill and amendment. He was anxious that the bill should pass, whether the amendment was adopted or not; but he would be gratified if the amendment should also prevail. It was hardly necessary for him to say, that in common with the rest of the community, the citizens of Springfield felt the severity of the times, and that this was calculated further to distress them, and that too for a claim which many of the disinterested citizens of this state thought of very questionable propriety. But this he would not now discuss. He wished to say in reply to the gentleman from Fulton (Mr. Ross)  who had stated that better accommodations were promised as an inducement to the removal of the seat of Government to this place, that so far, as himself and the representatives from this county were concerned, such was not the fact; nor did he believe it was removed from such miserable motives. There was not a member of that Legislature, that would confess that he was influenced by such unworthy considerations. It was from the fact that the great body of population being North, that a more central location was desired, and this it could not be doubted was the governing consideration with the Legislature. If the gentleman from Fulton thought that he was paying too high for his bread and meat, let him go home and invite his constituents to come over and set up a competition in this line of business. This was a matter that would always regulate itself. He hoped the amendment would prevail, but if it did not the bill should pass by all means, as the laborers had been waiting in need for some time.

Amendments Introduced in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Bill to Provide Payment for Work on State House
January 26, 1841
Mr LINCOLN moved to amend by inserting a proviso, that if any one of the obligors in the bond shall pay his proportionate share of indebtedness, he or they shall be free from all further obligation on the bond. Mr Ross moved to lay the above amendment on the table; which was negatived. Yeas 36, nays 39. Mr CAVARLY moved to refer the bill and amendments to a select committee. . . . Mr LINCOLN deprecated delay; the wants of the workmen were most urgent, and he hoped no delay would take place. Mr PECK spoke against delay. . . . Mr LINCOLN moved to strike out $20,000 and insert $30,000, which was agreed to; and the bill ordered to a third reading.

Debate in Illinois Legislatureon Resolution to Adjourn
January 27, 1841
Messrs. CAVARLY and PARSONS  spoke against the resolution, and Messrs. Hardin and Lincoln, supported it. Mr LINCOLN denied that his party had attempted to delay any measure brought forward by the other party.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto Authorize Certain State Debtors to Discharge Their Indebtedness in Illinois Internal Improvement Scrip
[January 27, 1841]
An act authorizing certain Debtors of the State to discharge their indebtedness in Illinois Internal Improvement Scrip. Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois represented in the General Assembly: That the obligors upon a certain bond executed by sundry citizens of the City of Springfield, in favour of the State of Illinois, for the sum of fifty thousand dollars, be authorized to discharge the same or the ballance due thereon, in whole or in part, in Illinois Internal Improvement Scrip.

Discussion in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Bill to Authorize Certain State Debtors to Discharge Their Indebtedness in Illinois Internal Improvement Scrip
February 1, 1841
Mr LINCOLN, from the committee on Finance, reported back the bill authorizing certain state debtors to discharge their debts in Illinois State scrip,  recommending its passage. Mr Ross moved to amend by adding a proviso, that the payment be made without suit. Mr LINCOLN replied in opposition to this amendment. . . .

Discussion in Illinois Legislatureof Bill to Create a Board of Auditors
February 4, 1841
The bill was further discussed by Messrs. Trumbull and Kitchell,  in opposition, and by Messrs. Archer, Lincoln, and Gillespie,  in favor of the bill.

To John T. Stuart
Dear Stuart: Springfield, Feb: 5th. 1841
Some of us here have concluded, that if it be agreeable, Bat Webb  shall be our District Attorney. He would accept the place; but will not enter into a scramble for it. We here, or at least I, know of no other applicant. I will add, that I really have my heart set upon Webb's appointment to this place; and that I believe the whole party would be gratified with it. What the Locos will do about the Congressional election no man can tell. I heard Herndon  say on yesterday, that he was in favour of taking Jersey, Green, Scott, Morgan, Cass, Menard, Sangamon, Logan and Tazewell, from your District & adding them to Reynolds, and leaving all else in statu quo . Something like this I think more probable than the District system; because our opponents are somewhat afraid of the latter themselves. As ever your friend A. LINCOLN

Discussion in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Bill to Incorporate the Springfield and Alton Railroad Company
February 6, 1841
Mr EDWARDS,  from the committee on Internal Improvement, reported back the bill to incorporate the Springfield and Alton Rail Road company, with an amendment providing for the use of the State property. The question being on ordering the bill to a third reading, Mr. MUNSELL  opposed the bill on the ground that the State property should not be given without conditions, to one section of the country more than another. Mr LINCOLN replied, and shewed in substance that the State property would all be lost and go to ruin, if the principle be adopted that no one shall have any, for fear all shall not have some.

Circular from Whig Committee Against the Judiciary Bill
February [8?], 1841
Appeal to the People of the State of Illinois . FELLOW-CITIZENS: When the General Assembly, now about adjourning, assembled in November last, from the bankrupt state of the public Treasury, the pecuniary embarrassments prevailing in every department of society, the dilapidated state of the public works, and the impending danger of the degradation of the State, you had a right to expect that your Representatives would lose no time in devising and adopting measures to avert threatened calamities, alleviate the distresses of the people, and allay the fearful apprehensions in regard to the future prosperity of the State. It was not expected by you, that the spirit of party would take the lead in the councils of the State, and make every interest bend to its demands. Nor was it expected that any party would assume to itself the entire control of legislation, and convert the means and offices of the State, and the substance of the people, into aliment for party subsistence. Neither could it have been expected by you, that party spirit, however strong its desires and unreasonable its demands, would have passed the sanctuary of the Constitution, and entered, with its unhallowed and hideous form into the formation of the Judiciary system. At an early period of the session, measures were adopted by the dominant party to take possession of the State, to fill all public offices with party men, and make every measure effecting the interests of the people and the credit of the State, operate in furtherance of their party views. The merits of men and measures therefore became the subject of discussion in caucus, instead of the halls of legislation, and decisions there made, by a minority of the Legislature, have been executed and carried into effect by the force of party discipline, without any regard whatever to the rights of the people, or the interests of the State. The Supreme Court of the State was organized and judges appointed, according to the provisions of the Constitution, in 1824. The people have never complained of the organization of that court---no attempt has ever before been made to change that department. Respect for public opinion and regard for the rights and liberties of the people have hitherto restrained the spirit of party from attacks upon the independence and integrity of the Judiciary. The same Judges have continued in office since 1824; their decisions have not been the subject of complaint among the people; the integrity and honesty of the court has not been questioned and it has never been supposed that the court has ever permitted party prejudice or party considerations to operate upon their decisions. The court was made to consist of four judges, and by the Constitution, two forms a quorum for the transaction of business. With this tribunal thus constituted, the people have been satisfied for near sixteen years. The same law which organized the Supreme court in 1824 also established and organized circuit courts, to be held in each county in the State, and five circuit judges were appointed to hold those courts. In 1826 the legislature abolished these circuit courts, repealed the Judges out of office, and required the judges of the Supreme court to hold the circuit courts. The reasons assigned for this change were, 1st, that the business of the country could be better attended to by the four judges of the supreme court, than by the two sets of judges; and, 2d, the state of the public treasury forbade the employment of unnecessary officers. In 1828 a circuit was established north of the Illinois river, in order to meet the wants of the people, and a circuit judge was appointed to hold the courts in that circuit. In 1834 the circuit court system was again established throughout the State, circuit Judges appointed to hold the courts, and the judges of the supreme court were relieved from the performance of circuit court duties. This change was recommended by the then acting Governor of the State, Gen. W. L. D. EWING, in the following terms: ``The augmented population of the State---the multiplied number of organized counties, as well as the increase of business in all has long since convinced every one conversant with this department of our government, of the indispensable necessity of an alteration in our Judiciary system, and the subject is therefore recommended to the earnest patriotic consideration of the Legislature. The present system has never been exempt from serious and weighty objections. The idea of appealing from the circuit court to the same judges in the supreme court, is recommended by little hopes of redress to the injured party below. The duties of the circuit, too, it may be added, consume one half of the year, leaving a small and inadequate portion of time, when that required for domestic purposes is deducted, to erect, in the decisions of the supreme court, a judicial monument of legal learning and research, which the talent and ability of the court might otherwise be entirely competent to.'' With this organization of circuit courts, the people have never complained. The only complaints which we have heard have come from circuits which were so large that the judges could not dispose of the business, and the circuits in which judges Pearson and Ralston lately presided. Whilst the honor and credit of the State demanded legislation upon the subject of the public debt, the Canal, the unfinished public works, and the embarrassments of the people, the Judiciary stood upon a basis which required no change---no legislative action. Yet the party in power, neglecting every interest requiring legislative action, and wholly disregarding the rights, wishes, and interests of the people, has, for the unholy purpose of providing places for its partizans and supplying them with large salaries, disorganized that department of the Government. Provision is made for the election of five party Judges of the Supreme Court---the proscription of four circuit Judges, and the appointment of party Clerks in more than half the counties in the State. Men, professing respect for public opinion and acknowledged to be leaders of the party, have avowed in the halls of legislation, that the change in the judiciary was intended to produce political results favorable to their party & party friends. The immutable principles of justice are to make way for party interests, and the bonds of social order are to be rent in twain, in order that a desperate faction may be sustained at the expense of the people. The change proposed in the judiciary was supported upon grounds so destructive to the institutions of the country, and so entirely at war with the rights and liberties of the people, that the party could not secure entire unanimity in its support---three democrats of the Senate and five of the House voting against the measure. They were unwilling to see the temples of justice and the seats of independent judges occupied by the tools of faction. The declarations of the party leaders, the selection of party men for judges, and the total disregard for the public will, in the adoption of the measure, prove conclusively that the object has been, not reform, but destruction, not the advancement of the highest interests of the State, but the predominance of party. We cannot in this manner undertake to point out all the objections to this party measure---we present you with those stated by the Council of Revision, upon returning the bill, and we ask for them a candid consideration. Believing that the independence of the Judiciary has been destroyed---that hereafter our courts will be independent of the people, and entirely dependent upon the Legislature---that our rights of property and liberty of conscience can no longer be regarded as safe from the encroachments of unconstitutional legislation---and knowing of no other remedy which can be adopted consistently with the peace and good order of society---we call upon you to avail yourselves of the opportunity afforded, and, at the next general election, vote for a Convention of the People. S. H. Little,  E. B. Webb, E. D. Baker, 	A. Lincoln, J. J. Hardin, 	J. Gillespie, Committee on behalf of the Whig members of the Legislature.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureReporting Bill for Election of a Public Binder
February 9, 1841
Mr. LINCOLN, from a select committee, reported back the bill for election of a Public Binder, with an amendment, securing the future work under the present General Assembly to Birchall and Johnson under contract made with them. After some remarks by Messrs Lincoln, Kitchell, and Brown,  of Vermilion, without taking the question, the House adjourned.

Speech in Illinois LegislatureConcerning the State Bank
February 11, 1841
A very interesting debate sprung up in the House yesterday upon a bill to repeal the act making the State Bank the fiscal agent of the State. The discussion took a wide range and was viewed with a good deal of interest, as involving, indirectly, the question whether the Bank should be sustained in a further suspension of specie payments. There is a manifest disposition on the part of some of the Van Buren men to prop up the Bank, and it is perfectly apparent that the party are prepared to detach a fraction of themselves to go with the Whigs in sustaining the Bank---their usual policy---and then throw the odium of suspension upon the Whigs. Mr. Lincoln said that he was tired of this business. If there was to be this continual warfare against the Institutions of the State, the sooner it was brought to an end the better. If the great body of the party would act upon conservative principles, he was willing to go with them, but this scheme of detaching a fragment from their party to help the Whigs pass a measure and then turn around and kick and cuff us for it, he had seen practiced long enough. The Bill was finally referred to the committee on Banks and Corporations. The debate was exceedingly intersting and occupied nearly the whole of the day. The chief speakers were Messrs. McClernand  and Lincoln, and the encounter between them was peculiarly sharp and personal.

Debate in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Sale of State Bonds
February 15, 1841
The first section of the bill providing for the sale of bonds for payment of the July interest was taken up and considered: several amendments were proposed by Messrs. Kitchell, Henderson  and Lincoln, and a lengthy debate took place on the question whether bonds should be sold at par value only, or whether they should be sold at such value as they might bear in the money market. Messrs Lincoln, McClearnand, Peck, and Brown,  of Vermilion, contended that to restrict them to be sold at par value only, was tantamount to prohibiting their sale, and would, therefore, defeat the whole object of the bill, and amount to an entire abandonment of the good faith of the State. . . .

Amendment Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto an Act to Amend an Act to Incorporate the City of Springfield
[February 17, 1841]
Amend said Bill by striking out all of the first section after the word ``repealed'' in the eighth line thereof, and inserting the following towit: ``and hereafter every Inhabitant of said City who is intitled to vote for state officers, and who has the requisite length of residence according to the act to which this is an amendment, shall be  eligible to the office of Mayor or Alderman of said City.''

Discussion in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Bill to Reorganize the Judiciary
February 18, 1841
Mr DRUMMOND moved to strike out Judge Brown from the 6th, and Judge Treat from the 8th circuit, and transpose them. Messrs Trumbull and White opposed the amendment, which was supported by Messrs Brown, of Vermilion, Drummond and Lincoln. . . . Mr LINCOLN resumed the argument in favor of sending Judge Treat to Jo Daviess, and Judge Brown to the Sangamo Circuit. Mr Trumbull replied. . . . Mr LINCOLN replied, and was followed by Mr White on the other side.

Amendment Introduced in Illinois Legislatureto an Act Making Appropriations for the Years 1841 and 1842
[February 18, 1841]
To William W Watson the sum of eightyone dollars for the use of a room for the Supreme Court twentyseven days at their June term 1840.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Relief of William Dormady
February 19, 1841
Mr LINCOLN explained a curious experiment which he said had been tried in the presence of a Jury: a pocket book filled with blank bills had been exposed to the action of fire, and the bills had not been burnt, which same bills afterwards burnt freely when subjected to the flame of a candle, hence a jury had concluded, and Mr L. also believed that the notes could not have been burnt in the manner stated in the affidavit. (The affidavit stated that the notes had, together with the pocket book been carbonized, not inflammed , and that on handling them they had crumbled to pieces.) 

Debate in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Bill to Change Lines of Menard County
February 22, 1841
Mr. LINCOLN was in favor of the reference. If, as his colleague  had stated, the people directly interested in this matter were opposed to the measure, he should most certainly oppose the bill---he would obey the will of his constituents. He hoped the reference would be had.

Bill Introduced in Illinois Legislaturein Relation to the State Bank of Illinois
[February 22, 1841]
SEC. 1st. Be it enacted by the People of the state of Illinois: That the twentyfifth section of an act entitled an act to incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of the state of Illinois Approved February 12th. 1835 be and the same is hereby repealed; and any and all forfeiture or forfeitures, which may have accrued under said section, hereby set aside. SEC: 2nd. That the said Bank be authorized to receive interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum, on all indebtedness hereafter created for shorter time than seven months, and on all other indebtedness, as now fixed by law. SEC: 3rd. That said Bank be authorized to issue and circulate bills or notes of less denomination than five dollars. SEC: 4th. If the said Bank shall avail itself of the foregoing provisions, it shall do so upon the condition, that it advance to the state the sum of two hundred thousand dollars before the next regular meeting of the General Assembly, for which advances it shall receive six per cent. state bonds at par---said advances to be made at such times, and in such sums not exceeding the whole, as may be necessary for the redemption of bonds hypothecated and for paying interest on the state indebtedness, other than that due said Bank; to which purposes, and no other said advances shall be faithfully applied. SEC: 5th. To avail said Bank of the provisions of this act, the President and Directors thereof shall pass an order accepting the same at their first meeting after the passage of this act. Amend  the bill by striking out the 3rd section and inserting in lieu thereof the following--- ``The said Bank shall not be entitled to the benefits of this act, until it shall have entered into contract with the Governor, to purchase of the state six per cent bonds at par as follows viz: On the first day of July next the amount of fifty thousand dollars, on the first day of January 1842 fifty thousand dollars; on the first day of July 1842 fifty thousand dollars, and on the first day of January 1843 fifty thousand dollars. And the purchase money of such bonds shall be advanced, at the times named, by said Bank, and applied exclusively to the redemption of Bonds heretofore hypothecated by the Fund Commissioner, and to the payment of interest due on state indebtedness, other than to said Bank.''

Suggestion in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Printing a Report
February 23, 1841
Mr. LINCOLN suggested that the printing be dispensed with,---without taking the question on the printing.

Discussion in Illinois LegislatureConcerning the State Bank
February 24, 1841
On motion of Mr HENDERSON,  the bill in relation to the State Bank was again taken up. . . . Mr McCLERNAND  moved to lay the bill on the table, which motion was lost, yeas 26, nays 51. The bill was then ordered to a second reading. Mr LINCOLN moved to dispense with the rules, and read it a second time by its title. Mr LINCOLN expressed his views of the necessity of an immediate settlement of the question: it was he said so connected with the great measure of providing for the interest and credit of the State that he hoped it would be passed without further delay. Mr KITCHELL  said, he hoped the bill would not be read again, nor at all: he believed the bill was calculated to ruin the State. Mr LOGAN  said, that some gentlemen were total destructives, they wished to destroy the canal, the Bank and every thing---but he would like to know how could the people pay taxes if the whole circulation was destroyed? now, it depended on this Bank: if it was destroyed the currency of the State would be cut off. The motion of Mr LINCOLN was then carried, and the bill was read a second time. . . . Mr McCLERNAND moved to refer the bill to the committee on Finance. . . . Mr MURPHY  of Perry, moved its reference to a select committee. Messrs. LINCOLN and BROWN,  of Vermilion, opposed the reference. Mr McCLERNAND supported the reference, and referred to Mr Lincoln's having on a former occasion expressed his intention of going against the Bank, as a mark of inconsistency. Mr LINCOLN replied and explained: that he had deprecated the efforts made to crush the Bank and only acted consistently in recommending what he thought the best means of saving both it and the state.

Discussion in Illinois LegislatureConcerning Payment of the State Debt
February 24, 1841
On motion of Mr. BALDWIN,  the bill to provide for the payment of the State debt, was taken up and read a second time. . . . Mr KITCHELL  offered to amend by requiring that the Bonds shall not be parted with at a less sum than their expressed value. Mr LINCOLN thought that to maintain the credit of the State, the best plan was to provide for making bonds good and valuable by raising a revenue to meet them, and having done so, then to dispose of them without restrictions and forcing them to an unnatural maximum. . . . Messrs Lincoln and Henderson,  in reference to the amendment, shewed the absurdities of pretending to sell bonds to pay interest and fixing upon them a price at which they never could be sold.

Remarks in Illinois LegislatureConcerning a Bill for Completion of the Illinois and Michigan Canal
February 26, 1841
Mr. LINCOLN offered an amendment, allowing the State to pay in Bonds at par for all work hereafter done, and to issue therefor $3,000,000 bonds. Mr. BISSELL  moved to strike out 3 and insert $1,500,000. Mr. LINCOLN accepted the amendment. Messrs. Lincoln and Dodge  supported the bill and Mr. Ormsbee and Kitchell  opposed it. Mr. KITCHELL was surprised at the course of the gentleman from Sangamon (Mr. Lincoln). We were already prostrated by debt, and that gentleman thought it would be for the interest of the State to go still deeper. Mr. K. said it reminded him of an anecdote, which he would relate. A drunkard in Arkansas took so much of the cretur , that he lost his reason and remained for some time in a state of insensibility. His wife tried every experiment to cure him; but it was of no avail, until a neighbor came to the house and recommended some brandy toddy . The insensible man rose at the word toddy , and said ``that is the stuff.'' It was so with the gentleman from Sangamon---more debt would be for the better. Mr. LINCOLN replied. He begged leave to tell an anecdote. The gentleman's course the past winter reminded him of an eccentric old bachelor who lived in the Hoosier State. Like the gentleman from Montgomery, he was very famous for seeing big bugaboos in every thing. He lived with an older brother, and one day he went out hunting. His brother heard him firing back of the field, and went out to see what was the matter. He found him loading and firing as fast as possible in the top of a tree. Not being able to discover any thing in the tree, he asked him what he was firing at. He replied a squirrel---and kept on firing. His brother believing there was some humbug about the matter, examined his person, and found on one of his eye lashes a big louse crawling about. It is so with the gentleman from Montgomery. He imagined he could see squirrels every day, when they were nothing but lice . [The House was convulsed with laughter.]

Whig Protest in Illinois Legislature Against the Reorganization of the Judiciary
February 26, 1841
PROTEST. The genius and the policy of Republican institutions alike indicate the wisdom and the necessity of a frequent appeal to the people. It is thus, and thus only that the misconduct of their Representatives may be rebuked, and when the guards of our Constitution, and the sacred rights of minorities are trampled under foot, the time has arrived for the appeal and the decision. The undersigned, members of the present General Assembly, have witnessed with regret and indignation, the passage of the law for the re-organization of the Judiciary. Their earnest and repeated efforts to defeat it have been unavailing, and already the din of the degrading contest for its offices and emoluments, sounds mournfully in the ear of patriotism. To the majority of a Legislature whose idol is party supremacy, we have addressed our reasons in vain. Announced as a party measure for party purposes, it has been strengthened by the startling admission, and it only remains for us to present to the people and the country, the causes of our opposition, and our opinion of the results. Our great objection to this bill is, that it is uncalled for by public opinion, or public convenience. The bill provides for the repeal of all the circuit courts, and for the election of five additional Supreme Judges, who, together with the present Supreme Judges, are required to hold circuit courts. This is an entire change in our Judiciary system. By what necessity is it justified, or by what emergency is it required? Does it cause more courts to be held, or more causes to be decided? Will delays of justice be obviated, or justice brought nearer to any man's door? To all these questions, the answer must be, no. There are still but nine circuit judges. They at least can perform no more duty by being Supreme Judges. They can travel no further, endure no more, sleep no less; for at best they are but men; and whoever for a moment examines, will see, that this bill, so far from aiding the speedy administration of justice, must, by imposing new and increased duties upon the judges presiding on the circuits, most materially delay and impede it. Since the adoption of the circuit system in 1834, the need of additional circuits has been constantly increasing, and gradually supplied. Our population has doubled, our business has increased in a still greater proportion, and the creation of new circuits, so as to keep pace with this advance, has been demanded by the people, and performed by the Legislature. There can be no doubt that a continuance in this course would have proved for the future, as it has done for the past, convenient, economical, and satisfactory. But if this change has not been called for by public convenience, still less has it been demanded by public opinion. When the Legislature assembled in advance of the usual time, the public mind was turned with feverish anxiety to the condition of the State, and the course of its rulers; an increased debt; an empty treasury. Our internal improvement system a wretched skeleton, railroads half finished, or half decayed; iron without roads, and roads without iron; the canal so surrounded with difficulties that even its truest friends were almost found ``to stop, too fearful, and too faint to go.'' Our scrip, issued on the faith of the State, spreading like leaves, every where, and like leaves almost valueless. These were some of the difficulties of our condition, and these it was supposed, required our utmost wisdom and patriotism. But while thus surrounded by clouds of misfortune, there was one part of the State administration against which there was no complaint, and in which almost alone, no change was required. Need we say this was our system of circuit courts, established after various trials, conforming itself to the condition and increase of our population, and approved by the experience of all the surrounding States. How strange, how unaccountable must it appear, that while all the rest of these great interests remaining unprotected, almost untouched, this system of circuit courts has been attacked and destroyed. Yet, if unjust and unwise as we believe it to be, public opinion, the great moving principle of free government, had indicated this change, we would have yielded obedience to its dictates, or at least bowed in submission to its authority. But this was not the case. In the canvass preceding the late election, excited and heated as it was, the subject was undiscussed, the change was not proposed, and even when it was known that there was a large majority of Van Buren men in either branch of the Legislature. Up to this moment, no petition, no complaint upon this subject has invited the attention of this body, or asked for its Legislation to destroy our Judiciary system. Thus unasked, unrequired, the bill has been ushered into existence, not merely in advance, but in defiance of that public will for which its supporters always profess such profound respect. Nor is the manner in which this bill has been sustained, less remarkable. It was preceded by the statement that the destruction of the existing system was to be followed by the creation of inferior tribunals, by which the public interests would be advanced. Their jurisdiction, their judges, their location, were left to the imaginations of those whose votes were necessary; and if visions of judicial dignity burst upon their excited fancy, and furnished powerful reasons in support of the bill they were called upon to pass, it might well be called a master stroke of policy, if not of morals, to suggest the idea. Nor were the spoils of victory to be disregarded. Scattered in every county of the State, the new clerkships might tempt avarice, and excite ambition, or at least afford a safe, if not honorable retreat from the indignation of the people. But, as if these reasons were still insufficient, the genius of its friends were called into brilliant exercise in rousing the spirit of party; and the dominant party were called to its support in the name of Democracy, as if the spirit of Democracy could animate a measure remarkable only for its supreme contempt for the popular will, or stern determination to usurp power. It was thus the Democracy were called on to rally to its support, and it was unblushingly avowed as its object, to obtain a Democratic majority in the Supreme Court, that they might decide questions of law according to the principles of Democracy, or in other words, according to the will of the party in power. It was by these and kindred means that the bare constitutional majority was obtained, and thus the independence of the Judiciary, the surest shield of public welfare and private right, has been brought to abject submission at the feet of Legislative authority. We have not been neglectful of our duty in warning the majority of the dangers of these violations of the spirit of the Constitution. We have pointed to the care with which the Constitution has guarded the rights of the Judiciary. We have remonstrated against this evasive mode of removing Judges who are expressly required by the Constitution to be commissioned during good behaviour. We have asked that if criminal or incompetent, they should be removed by address or impeachment, the only modes known to the Constitution; and we have deprecated in earnest but respectful terms, an arbitrary exercise of power which may soon become the precedent for still more flagrant violations of right and justice. But we have striven in vain; the torrent of party prejudices has borne down our objections, and we can only hope that in the majesty of the popular will it may find a barrier sufficient to impede its course and stay its mischief. We desire to say also that we consider this a fit occasion to express our conviction of the great injury this bill will cause to our character as a State. We have arrived at a critical period in our history; we seem to be surrounded by adverse circumstances well fitted to try our public faith and individual virtue. It would be the greatest, as we trust it may be the last evil we could endure, to lose our rank among States, and stand disgraced amid the fair sisters of our confederacy. But if, to the calamities to which we are already subject, and which direct painful attention to our course, is to be added a party Judiciary, made by one party, and for one party, and of one party, who that loves his country does not painfully perceive the deep but certain degradation which awaits us. Nor do we think the influence of this bill less pernicious in its more immediate results; that there will be a lamentable want of confidence in our courts, we firmly believe; nor indeed can it be otherwise. Whoever may be selected as Judges under this bill must feel that they receive their offices from party domination, for party purposes, and the lofty independence so becoming to a judge cannot exist; the will of the party and the success of the party must be in their thoughts, and if it were possible to suppose it otherwise, how will they stand with the community? Will they not be subject to the galling but continual imputation, to the burden of a suspicion, justified, if not by their conduct, at least by their position; baneful and miserable must the tendencies of this measure be, since our courts, if not corrupt, must be suspected, and the streams of justice tinged, if not by the impurity of the fountain, by the jaundiced vision of the beholder. There are some of the undersigned who witnessed in another State  the fearful consequences of a similar interference with the courts by the Legislative authority. They saw there a contest thus produced which for bitterness and ferocity has seldom been equalled; they witnessed the whole framework of society shaken, justice denied, delayed, and brought into disrepute; crime stalking unrebuked and unpunished, and the best interests of a community shattered or crushed, and they cannot remain silent when an attempt is made which being intended for similar purposes, may produce similar results. For the reasons thus presented, and for others no less apparent, the undersigned cannot assent to the passage of the bill, or permit it to become a law without this evidence of their disapproval; and they now protest against the passage of a bill for the re-organization of the Judiciary; because, First. It violates the great principles of the government by subjecting the Judiciary to the Legislature; Second. It is a fatal blow at the independence of the Judges, and the constitutional term of their office; Third. It is a measure not asked for, or wished for by the people; Fourth. It will greatly increase the expense of our courts, or else greatly diminish their utility; Fifth. It will give our courts a political and partizan character, thereby imparing public confidence in their decisions; Sixth. It will impair our standing in the opinion of other States, and the world; Seventh. It is a party measure, for party purposes, from which no practical good to the people can possibly arise, but which may be the source of innumerable evils. The undersigned are well aware that this protest will be altogether unavailing with the majority of this body. The blow has already fallen, and we are compelled to stand by the mournful spectators of the ruin it will cause. But we cannot do otherwise than point out the danger of this measure, its impolicy and its usurpation, in order, at least, that the despotism of a momentary majority may not become a precedent for succeeding enormities, or future crimes. We have thus accomplished our only remaining duty on this painful subject, and we commit the final decision of this great question to the judgment and justice of the people. We have struggled ineffectually to guard the principles of our government from unhallowed innovation, and we now submit this great question to our constituents, and the country. As Representatives, we can do no more; as citizens, we shall be found where we have ever been, contending for the supremacy of the Constitution. Nor are we without our great consolation; there is a spirit in the people, sometimes slumbering, but never extinct, which, when thoroughly aroused by usurpation or tyranny, will overwhelm the usurper and his devices in an undistinguished ruin; nor can they long escape this generous indignation, who prostitute the power bestowed by the people to unworthy ends or selfish purposes. When that spirit shall kindle in its might, and rebuke the authors and abettors of this plan, we may rely upon this protest as a proof of our fidelity to the cause of the country, and a shield against the indignation of the people. Joseph Gillespie, 	Thomas Threlkeld, 	D. M. Woodson, John J. Brown, 	A. Lincoln, 	E. B. Webb, Leander Munsell, 	J. M. McLean, 	John Denny, Wm. B. Archer, 	H. W. Thornton, 	Isaac Froman, John F. Charles, 	Wm. A. Minshall, 	James H. Beall, Isaac Funk, 	Jas. M. Bradford, 	Josiah Francis, Alden Hull, 	John J. Hardin, 	Daniel Troy, John Darnielle, 	Jeremiah Cox, 	James Parkinson, Geo. W. Waters, 	Peter Menard, Jr., 	John Canady, Cyrus Edwards, 	Wm. H. Henderson, 	Alexander Phillips, James T. Cunningham, 	James Reynolds, 	Jas. N. Brown, John Bennett, 	Wm. W. Bailey,

Bill Introduced in Illinois LegislatureSupplemental to Charter of the Springfield and Alton Turnpike Company
[February 27, 1841]
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois, represented in the General Assembly , That the Springfield and Alton turnpike road company be, and they are hereby authorized to take and appropriate the work and materials on so much of the western division of the Alton and Mount Carmel railroad, as extends from the public landing in the city of Alton, to the juncture of said railroad with the Alton and Shelbyville railroad, together with all the timber and other materials that have been furnished and not used for the first mentioned railroad, and so much of the work done and materials furnished upon the Alton and Shelbyville railroad as extends from the juncture aforesaid, towards its contemplated intersection with the Central railroad, and to continue along the line of said railroad towards the Central railroad so far as they may deem proper, and also to connect the turnpike or railroad contemplated in the charter of said turnpike road company, with the Northern Cross railroad at Berlin in Sangamon county; or at such other point on said Cross railroad between Berlin and Springfield as may be most beneficial for the interest of said company, and for the public, and to use so much of the said Cross railroad between Jacksonville and Springfield as they shall deem necessary in common with the State, or any company to whom the same may be granted; and said Springfield and Alton turnpike road company shall pay to the State or company a proportionate amount for the necessary repairs of the road, and such further sum for the use of so much of said Cross railroad as shall be used as may be agreed upon by the parties; or in case of disagreement, such further sum as shall be decreed by the judge of the circuit court of Sangamon county sitting as chancellor: Provided, always , That the State or companies to whom the same may be granted, shall have the free and full use and enjoyment of the aforesaid State works without cost or charge, in common with the said Springfield and Alton turnpike road company: Provided further , That the said Springfield and Alton turnpike road company, shall enter into bond with sufficient security to the Governor, conditioned for the faithful application of the materials aforesaid, and for the efficient commencement of their said road within two years, and for the final completion of the same within ten years from the passage of this act. SEC. 2. The said Springfield and Alton turnpike road company are hereby further authorized to use so much of the railroad iron now owned by the State, as will be sufficient to lay down a single or double railroad track, from the end or diverging point of the State works on the Alton and Shelbyville railroad, to the point of intersection with the Northern Cross railroad contemplated in this act, for which iron so to be used, the said company shall pay a fair value, to be determined by the company, and the proper agent of the State, which sum or value so agreed upon shall be paid by said company to the State, when it is required to pay its bonds given for said iron; the interest on the amount of iron so purchased is to be paid at such time and times as the interest is required to be paid on the bonds given as aforesaid, and the rate of interest to be the same; the final payment for said iron to be secured by pledging to the State the railroad to be constructed by the company, and by giving additional security to the satisfaction of the State. SEC. 3. The Governor upon the filing a bond in the amount sufficient to cover all damages which may be sustained by the State, shall authorize the said Springfield and Alton turnpike road company to have and take the work and materials aforesaid, and use the same as hereby directed. SEC. 4. That the proviso in the ninth section of the act to which this is an amendment, be, and the same is hereby repealed. SEC. 5. That at any time after fifteen years from the completion of said Springfield and Alton turnpike road, or a railroad in lieu thereof as authorized by the charter of said company, the State shall have the privilege of purchasing said road by paying to said company the original cost of said road exclusive of the value of the work and materials obtained from the State, as herein before provided, together with such a sum by way of interest, as may, when added to the profits, the company may have received from said road equal in annual interest of six per centum on said original cost, in case said profits shall have fallen short of such annual rate of interest. SEC. 6. That Thomas G. Hawley, Benjamin K. Hart, Jonathan T. Hudson, Jeremiah A. Townsend, John W. Buffum, S. M. Tinsley, S.B. Opdycke, F.A. Olds and Cyrus Edwards shall be commissioners in connection with the present directors of said Springfield and Alton turnpike road company, the duty of whom, or a majority of whom, shall be to open the books in the city of Springfield and Alton, or wheresoever they may deem proper after giving such notice as is required by the original charter of said company; to receive subscriptions for a sufficient amount of stock in said company over and above the present capital stock, as will enable said company, without delay, to proceed to complete said road; and the said commissioners are further authorized to receive subscriptions for so much of the original capital stock of said company as has been previously subscribed for, and on which no part of the subscription money or any instalments have been bona fide paid. SEC. 7. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act, be, and the same are hereby repealed. SEC. 8. This act to take effect from and after its passage. Approved, February 27, 1841.

Discussion in Illinois Legislatureof a Bill for Taxing Doctors and Lawyers
February 27, 1841
Mr LINCOLN moved to amend the Lawyers tax by striking out all that part of the bill taxing lawyers $15 in every county of the State in which they attend to any suit, (besides also $15 in their own county,) the amendment was carried. Mr. DOLLINS  moved to amend by substituting 10 for $15, agreed to. Mr BISSELL  moved to reduce the Doctors tax from 10 to $5 agreed to. Mr KITCHELL  moved to tax all the members of the Legislature $5. Mr LINCOLN suggested that there was a rule preventing them from voting in cases in which they were interested, and it appeared to him they were interested in this case, (a laugh)

Letter Written to Silas Reed for John M. Neale
Hon: Silas Reed Springfield, Illinois, Surveyor General &c. June 3rd. 1841
My object in trou[bling you] with this is to procure a contract of the [?] Surveying. You are favourably known by ma[ny promin]ent citizens of this city, and, in case you [shall be] disposed to treat my application favourably, I will procure any sort of recommendation from them that you may require.  Yours with respect JOHN M. NEALE P.S. I have concluded to send two or three recommendations at this time, thinking it might enable you to decide on my application without further delay. J.M.N.

Endorsement: John T. Stuart to Silas Reed
June 3, 1841
I most cheerfully endorse the foregoing recommendations of Col. Neale. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Davidson
Dear Col: Springfield, June 4th. 1841-
Yours of the 23rd. ult: is duly received and I have most cheerfully complied with the request you make in relation to Col: Servant.  I have written to Mr. Tyler  saying all for the Col: that I could say for the best man on earth. Baker  will do the same to-day. About the matter you and I spoke of at our last parting, I can say nothing which would be news to you. My feelings, and those of Baker, on that subject, are precisely the same as when we last saw you; but the question is how to effect any thing. If you see any way that we can do any thing you ought to write us; there is no indelicacy in it. Baker and I were with Webb  at Vermillion, and talked the matter over with him; and he will tell you the particulars of what we thought. With my best respects to Mrs. Davidson and Mrs. Wilson,  I remain Your friend, as ever A. LINCOLN

Receipt to Josiah N. Francis
June 12th. 1841-
This may certify that I have this day received of Josiah Francis  four notes, hereafter described, upon the following conditions that I am to keep them forty days unless the makers or any of them call and pay, and at the end of that time or any time afterwards am to return them or so many of them as remain unpaid, when said Francis may demand them of me at my office; and any money I may receive upon s[ai]d notes is to be applied to one or the other or both of two judgements obtained against sd Francis in one case & against him and others in the other, before Thomas Moffett a Justice of the Peace of Sangamon county. The constable who has the executions in those cases, if they will expire before the said forty days, may return them and take out new, & if they will not so expire, he may suspend acting upon them for that length of time. The notes are as follows--- 1 on Wesley Eads for. 	$73.58 1 on William Boyd for. 	34.06 1 on William Ramsay for. 	20.00 1 on Bondurant & Primm for. 	12.37. A. LINCOLN All responsibility of A. Lincoln on this receipt is discharged by receipt & application of money & by return of notes. Nov. 17. 1845 JOSIAH FRANCIS

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, June 19th. 1841
We have had the highest state of excitement here for a week past that our community has ever witnessed; and, although the public feeling is now somewhat allayed, the curious affair which aroused it, is verry far from being, even yet, cleared of mystery. It would take a quire of paper to give you any thing like a full account of it; and I therefore only propose a brief outline.  The chief personages in the drama, are Archibald Fisher, supposed to be murdered; and Archibald Trailor, Henry Trailor, and William Trailor, supposed to have murdered him. The three Trailors are brothers; the first, Arch: as you know, lives in town; the second, Henry, in Clary's Grove, and the third, Wm., in Warren county; and Fisher, the supposed murderee , being without a family, had made his home with William. On saturday evening, being the 29th. of May, Fisher and William came to Henry's in a one horse dearborn, and there staid over sunday; and on monday all three came to Springfield, Henry on horseback, and joined Archibald at Myers'  the dutch carpenter. That evening at supper Fisher was missing, and so next morning. Some ineffectual search was made for him; and on tuesday at 1 o'clock PM. Wm. & Henry started home without him. In a day or so Henry and one or two of his Clary Grove neighbours came back and searched for him again, and advertised his disappearance in the paper. The knowledge of the matter thus far, had not been general; and here it dropped entirely till about the 10th. Inst. when Keys  received a letter from the Post Master  in Warren [County], stating that Wm. had arrived at home, and was telling a verry mysterious and improbable story about the disappearance of Fisher, which induced the community there to suppose that he had been disposed of unfairly. Key's made this letter public, which immediately set the whole town and adjoining country agog; and so it has continued until yesterday. The mass of the People commenced a systematic search for the dead body, while Wickersham was dispatched to arrest Henry Trailor at the Grove; and Jim Maxey, to Warren to arrest William.  On monday last Henry was brought in, and showed an evident inclination to insinuate that he knew Fisher to be dead, and that Arch: & Wm. had killed him. He said he guessed the body could be found in Spring Creek between the Beardstown road bridge and Hickoxes  mill. Away the People swept like a herd of buffaloes, and cut down Hickoxes mill dam nolens volens , to draw the water out of the pond; and then went up and down, and down and up the creek, fishing and raking, and ducking and diving for two days, and after all, no dead body found. In the mean time a sort of scuffling ground had been found in the brush in the angle or point where the road leading into the woods past the brewery, and the one leading in past the brick-yard join. From this scuffle ground, was the sign of something about the size of a man having been dragged to the edge of the thicket, where it joined the track of some small wheeled carriage which was drawn by one horse, as shown by the horse tracks. The carriage track led off towards Spring Creek. Near this drag trail, Dr. Merryman  found two hairs , which after a long scientific examination, he pronounced to be triangular human hairs, which term, he says includes within it, the whiskers, the hairs growing under the arms and on other parts of the body; and he judged that these two were of the whiskers, because the ends were cut, showing that they had flourished in the neighbourhood of the razor's opperations. On thursday last, Jim: Maxey brought in William Trailor from Warren. On the same day Arch: was arrested and put in jail. Yesterday (friday) William was put upon his examining trial before May and Lavely.  Archibald and Henry were both present. Lamborn  prossecuted, and Logan,  Baker,  and your humble servant, defended. A great many witnesses were introduced and examined; but I shall only mention those whose testimony seemed to be the most important. The first of these was Capt. Ransdell.  He swore, that when William and Henry left Springfield for home on the tuesday before mentioned, they did not take the direct route, which, you know, leads by the butcher shop, but that they followed the street North untill they got opposite, or nearly opposite May's new house, after which he could not see them from where he stood; and it was afterwards proven than in about an hour after they started, they came into the street by the butcher's shop from towards the brick yard. Dr. Merryman & others swore to what is before stated about the scuffle-ground, drag-trail, whiskers, and carriage tracks. Henry was then introduced by the prossecution. He swore, that when they started for home, they went out North as Ransdell stated, and turned down West by the brick yard into the woods, and there met Archibald; that they proceeded a small distance further, where he was placed as a sentinel to watch for, and announce the approach of any one that might happen that way; that William and Arch: took the dearborn out of the road a small distance to the edge of the thicket, where they stopped, and he saw them lift the body of a man into it; that they then moved off with the carriage in the direction of Hickoxes mill, and he loitered about for something like an hour, when William returned with the carriage, but without Arch: and said that they had put him in a safe place; that they then went some how, he did not know exactly how, into the road close to the brewery, and proceeded on to Clary's Grove. He also stated that sometime during the day, William told him, that he and Arch: had killed Fisher the evening before; that the way they did it was by him (William) knocking him down with a club, and Arch: then choking him to death. An old man from Warren, called Dr. Gilmore, was then introduced on the part of the defence. He swore that he had known Fisher for several years; that Fisher had resided at his house a long time at each of two different spells; once while he built a barn for him, and once while he was doctored for some chronic disease; that two or three years ago, Fisher had a serious hurt in his head by the bursting of a gun, since which he has been subject to continual bad health, and occasional abberations of mind. He also stated that on last tuesday, being the same day that Maxey arrested William Trailor, he (the Dr) was from home in the early part of the day, and on his return about 11 o'clock, found Fisher at his house in bed, and apparantly verry unwell; that he asked how he had come from Springfield; that Fisher said he had come by Peoria, and also told [of] several other other [ sic ] places he had been at not in the direction of Peoria, which showed that he, at the time of speaking, did not know where he had been, or that he had been wandering about in a state of derangement. He further stated that in about two hours he received a note from one of William Trailor's friends, advising him of his arrest, and requesting him to go on to Springfield as a witness, to testify to the state of Fisher's health in former times; that he immediately set off, catching up two of his neighbours, as company, and riding all evening and all night, overtook Maxey & William at Lewiston in Fulton county; that Maxey refusing to discharge Trailor upon his statement, his two neighbors returned, and he came on to Springfield. Some question being made whether the doctor's story was not a fabrication, several acquaintances of his, among whom was the same Post Master who wrote to Key's as before mentioned, were introduced as sort of compurgators, who all swore, that they knew the doctor [to] be of good character for truth and veracity, and generally of good character in every way. Here the testimony ended, and the Trailors were discharged, Arch: and William expressing, both in word and manner their entire confidence that Fisher would be found alive at the doctor's by Galaway [ sic ], Mallory,  and Myers, who a day before had been dispached for that purpose; while Henry still protested that no power on earth could ever show Fisher alive. Thus stands this curious affair now. When the doctor's story was first made public, it was amusing to scan and contemplate the countenances, and hear the remarks of those who had been actively engaged in the search for the dead body. Some looked quizical, some melancholly, and some furiously angry. Porter, who had been very active, swore he always knew the man was not dead, and that he had not stirred an inch to hunt for him; Langford,  who had taken the lead in cuting down Hickoxes mill dam, and wanted to hang Hickox for objecting, looked most awfully wo-begone; he seemed the `` wictim of hun-requited haffection '' as represented in the comic almanic [ sic ] we used to laugh over; and Hart,  the little drayman that hauled Molly  home once, said it was too damned bad, to have so much trouble, and no hanging after all. I commenced this letter on yesterday, since which I received yours of the 13th. I stick to my promise to come to Louisville. Nothing new here except what I have written. I have not seen Sarah  since my long trip, and I am going out there as soon as I mail this letter. Yours forever LINCOLN.

Statement Regarding Harry Wilton
June 25, 1841
It having been charged in some of the public prints, that HARRY WILTON,  late United States Marshal for the District of Illinois, had used his office for political effect, in the appointment of Deputies for the taking of the census for the year 1840, we, the undersigned, were called upon by Mr. Wilton to examine the papers in his possession relative to these appointments, and to ascertain therefrom the correctness or incorrectness of such charge. We accompanied Mr. Wilton to a room, and examined the matter as fully as we could with the means afforded us. The only sources of information, bearing on the subject, which were submitted to us, were the letters , &c. recommending and opposing the various appointments made, and Mr. Wilton's verbal statements concerning the same. From these letters, &c., it appears that in some instances appointments were made in accordance with the recommendations of leading whigs, and in opposition to those of leading democrats; among which instances, the appointments in Scott, Wayne, Madison and Lawrence are the strongest. According to Mr. Wilton's statement, of the 76 appointments we examined, 54 were of democrats, 11 of whigs, and 11 of unknown politics. The chief ground of complaint against Mr. Wilton, as we had understood it, was because of his appointment of so many democratic candidates for the legislature; thus giving them a decided advantage over their whig opponents---and consequently our attention was directed rather particularly to that point. We found that there were many such appointments, among which were those in Tazewell, McLean, Iriquois [ sic ], Coles, Menard, Wayne, Washington, Fayette, &c.; and we did not learn that there was ONE instance in which a whig candidate for the legislature had been appointed. There was no written evidence before us, showing us at what time those appointments were made; but Mr. Wilton stated that they all, with one exception, were made before those appointed became candidates for the legislature; and the letters, &c. recommending them all bear date before, and most of them long before those appointed were publicly announced as candidates. We give the foregoing naked facts, and draw no conclusions from them. BENJ. S. EDWARDS,  June 25, 1841. A. LINCOLN.

To Mary Speed
Miss Mary Speed, Bloomington, Illinois, Louisville, Ky. Sept. 27th. 1841
My Friend: Having resolved to write to some of your mother's family, and not having the express permission of any one of them [to] do so, I have had some little difficulty in determining on which to inflict the task of reading what I now feel must be a most dull and silly letter; but when I remembered that you and I were something of cronies while I was at Farmington,  and that, while there, I once was under the necessity of shutting you up in a room to prevent your committing an assault and battery upon me, I instantly decided that you should be the devoted one. I assume that you have not heard from Joshua & myself since we left,  because I think it doubtful whether he has written. You remember there was some uneasiness about Joshua's health when we left. That little indisposition of his turned out to be nothing serious; and it was pretty nearly forgotten when we reached Springfield. We got on board the Steam Boat Lebanon, in the locks of the Canal about 12. o'clock. M. of the day we left, and reached St. Louis the next monday at 8 P.M. Nothing of interest happened during the passage, except the vexatious delays occasioned by the sand bars be thought interesting. By the way, a fine example was presented on board the boat for contemplating the effect of condition upon human happiness. A gentleman had purchased twelve negroes in different parts of Kentucky and was taking them to a farm in the South. They were chained six and six together. A small iron clevis was around the left wrist of each, and this fastened to the main chain by a shorter one at a convenient distance from, the others; so that the negroes were strung together precisely like so many fish upon a trot-line. In this condition they were being separated forever from the scenes of their childhood, their friends, their fathers and mothers, and brothers and sisters, and many of them, from their wives and children, and going into perpetual slavery where the lash of the master is proverbially more ruthless and unrelenting than any other where; and yet amid all these distressing circumstances, as we would think them, they were the most cheerful and apparantly happy creatures on board. One, whose offence for which he had been sold was an over-fondness for his wife, played the fiddle almost continually; and the others danced, sung, cracked jokes, and played various games with cards from day to day. How true it is that ``God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb,'' or in other words, that He renders the worst of human conditions tolerable, while He permits the best, to be nothing better than tolerable. To return to the narative. When we reached Springfield, I staid but one day when I started on this tedious circuit where I now am. Do you remember my going to the city  while I was in Kentucky, to have a tooth extracted, and making a failure of it? Well, that same old tooth got to paining me so much, that about a week since I had it torn out, bringing with it a bit of the jawbone; the consequence of which is that my mouth is now so sore that I can neither talk, nor eat. I am litterally ``subsisting on savoury remembrances''---that is, being unable to eat, I am living upon the remembrance of the delicious dishes of peaches and cream we used to have at your house. When we left, Miss Fanny Henning  was owing you a visit, as I understood. Has she paid it yet? If she has, are you not convinced that she is one of the sweetest girls in the world? There is but one thing about her, so far as I could perceive, that I would have otherwise than as it is. That is something of a tendency to melancholly. This, let it be observed, is a misfortune not a fault. Give her an assurance of my verry highest regard, when you see her. Is little Siss Eliza Davis  at your house yet? If she is kiss her ``o'er and o'er again'' for me. Tell your mother that I have not got her ``present''  with me; but that I intend to read it regularly when I return home. I doubt not that it is really, as she says, the best cure for the ``Blues'' could one but take it according to the truth. Give my respects to all your sisters (including ``Aunt Emma'')  and brothers. Tell Mrs. Peay,  of whose happy face I shall long retain a pleasant remembrance, that I have been trying to think of a name for her homestead, but as yet, can not satisfy myself with one. I shall be verry happy to receive a line from you, soon after you receive this; and, in case you choose to favour me with one, address it to Charleston, Coles Co. Ills as I shall be there about the time to receive it. Your sincere friend A. LINCOLN

Call for Whig State Convention
October 20, 1841
WHIG STATE CONVENTION. The undersigned, acting as is believed, in accordance with the wishes of the whig party, and in compliance with their duties as the Whig Central Committee of this State, appoint the third Monday of December next, for the meeting of a Whig State Convention, at Springfield, for the purpose of nominating candidates for the offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor of this State for the coming election. It is recommended that the number of Delegates to the Convention shall conform to the number of Representatives to which the Counties are respectively entitled under the new apportionment; but that in all cases every County shall be entitled to one Delegate. We would urge upon our political friends in the different Counties to call meetings immediately for the election of Delegates. It is ardently hoped that the Counties will be fully represented, in order that the will of the people may be expressed in the selection of candidates. A. G. HENRY, E. D. BAKER, Springfield, Oct. 20, 1841. J. F. SPEED, WM. L. MAY, A. LINCOLN, Whig State Central Committee.

Indenture: Thomas and Sarah Lincoln to Abraham Lincoln
October 25, 1841
This Indenture made this twentyfifth day of October in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fortyone by and between Thomas Lincoln and Sarah his wife, of the county of Coles and State of Illinois, party of the first part, and Abraham Lincoln of the county of Sangamon and State aforesaid, party of the second part, Witnesseth: That the said party of the first part, for, and in consideration of the sum of two hundred dollars to them in hand paid by the said party of the second part, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, have granted, bargained, and sold; and by these presents do grant, bargain and sell unto the said party of the second part, his heirs and assigns forever, all their right, title, interest, and estate in and to the North East fourth of the South East quarter of Section Twentyone, in Township Eleven North, Range Nine East containing forty acres, more or less; reserving, however the ocupation, use, and entire control of said tract of land, and the appurtenances thereunto belonging, to the said party of the first part, and to the survivor of them, during both and each of their natural-lives. To have and to hold to the said party of the second part, his heirs and assigns forever, subject to the reservation aforesaid, the above described tract or parcel of land, aforesaid together with all and singular the previleges and appurtenances thereunto belonging. In testimony whereof the said party of the first part have hereunto set their hands and seals, the day and year above written. THOMAS LINCOLN (SEAL) her SARAH X LINCOLN (SEAL) mark

Acknowledgment of Deed
State of Illinois October 25, 1841
Coles County} ss. Personally appeared before the undersigned, an acting Justice of the Peace, in and for the county aforesaid, Thomas Lincoln, and Sarah Lincoln his wife, who are personally known to me to be the identical persons by whom, and in whose names the within deed is executed, and acknowledged the same to be their voluntary act and deed for the purposes therein expressed. Given under my hand and seal this 25th. day of October. A.D. 1841--- DAVID DRYDEN J. P. (SEAL)

Bond
October 25, 1841
Whereas I have purchased of Thomas Lincoln and his wife, the North East fourth of the South East quarter of Section Twentyone in Township Eleven North of Range Nine East, for which I have paid them the sum of two hundred dollars, and have taken their deed of conveyance for the same, with a reservation of a life estate therein to them and the survivor of them. Now I bind myself, my heirs and assigns, to convey said tract of land to John D. Johnston, or his heirs, at any time after the death of the survivor of the said Thomas Lincoln & wife, provided he shall pay me, my heirs or assigns, the said sum of two hundred dollars, at any time within one year after the death of the survivor of the said Thomas Lincoln & wife, and the same may be paid without interest except after the death of the survivor as aforesaid.  Witness my hand and seal this 25th. of October A.D. 1841. A. LINCOLN (SEAL)

Receipt to John Brodie
November 17, 1841
Received, Springfield, Nov. 17th. 1841 of John Brodie, administrator of Archibald Hood deceased, ten dollars, being in full for a fee which said Hood owed me, and also the only debt he owed me. A. LINCOLN

Resolutions Adopted at a Whig Meeting
November 22, 1841
Whereas, a State Whig Convention has been called to reconcile conflicting claims to the nomination of a Whig candidate for Governor; and whereas Col. Wm. H. Davidson has declined being a candidate for that office---leaving no other candidate before the people than Gen. Joseph Duncan--- Resolved , As the opinion of this meeting, that the necessity of holding a State Convention seems to be obviated, and that we will cordially unite in the support of Joseph Duncan for Governor of this State---but that on the subject of holding a State convention, as on all others connected with the interests of the Whig party and the maintenance of its principles, we will abide the decision of our friends in other portions of the State. Resolved , That we respectfully suggest the name of Hon. JUSTIN HARLAN, of Clark county--- late a Judge of the Circuit Court---as a suitable candidate for the office of Lieutenant Governor. Resolved , That the following named persons be delegates for this county to the State Whig Convention, provided it is deemed necessary to hold one: Wm. Caldwell, of Sugar Creek; S. B. Eaty of Athens; John Dawson, of Wolf Creek; H. Yates, of Island Grove; and A. Lincoln of Springfield.

Receipt to A. H. Kellar

Decr. 6th. 1841. Received of A. H. Kellar $12.50. the ballance of his note to Stuart & Lincoln, and for one half of which I am to account to Stuart. A. LINCOLN 

To Joshua F. Speed
My Dear Speed: [January 3? 1842]
Feeling, as you know I do, the deepest solicitude for the success of the enterprize you are engaged in, I adopt this as the last method I can invent to aid you, in case (which God forbid) you shall need any aid. I do not place what I am going to say on paper, because I can say it any better in that way than I could by word of mouth; but because, were I to say it orrally, before we part,  most likely you would forget it at the verry time when it might do you some good. As I think it reasonable that you will feel verry badly some time between this and the final consummation of your purpose, it is intended that you shall read this just at such a time. Why I say it is reasonable that you will feel verry badly yet, is, because of three special causes , added to the general one which I shall mention. The general cause is, that you are naturally of a nervous temperament ; and this I say from what I have seen of you personally, and what you have told me concerning your mother at various times, and concerning your brother William at the time his wife died. The first special cause is, your exposure to bad weather on your journey, which my experience clearly proves to be verry severe on defective nerves. The second is, the absence of all business and conversation of friends , which might divert your mind, and give it occasional rest from that intensity of thought, which will some times wear the sweetest idea thread-bare and turn it to the bitterness of death. The third is, the rapid and near approach of that crisis on which all your thoughts and feelings concentrate . If from all these causes you shall escape and go through triumphantly, without another ``twinge of the soul,'' I shall be most happily, but most egregiously deceived. If, on the contrary, you shall, as I expect you will at some time, be agonized and distressed, let me, who have some reason to speak with judgement on such a subject, beseech you, to ascribe it to the causes I have mentioned; and not to some false and ruinous suggestion of the Devil. ``But'' you will say ``do not your causes apply to every one engaged in a like undertaking?'' By no means. The particular causes , to a greater or less extent, perhaps do apply in all cases; but the general one , nervous debility, which is the key and conductor of all the particular ones, and without which they would be utterly harmless, though it does pertain to you, does not pertain to one in a thousand. It is out of this, that the painful difference between you and the mass of the world springs. I know what the painful point with you is, at all times when you are unhappy. It is an apprehension that you do not love her as you should. What nonsense!---How came you to court her? Was it because you thought she desired it; and that you had given her reason to expect it? If it was for that, why did not the same reason make you court Ann Todd,  and at least twenty others of whom you can think, & to whom it would apply with greater force than to her ? Did you court her for her wealth? Why, you knew she had none. But you say you reasoned yourself into it. What do you mean by that? Was it not, that you found yourself unable to reason yourself out of it? Did you not think, and partly form the purpose, of courting her the first time you ever saw or heard of her? What had reason to do with it, at that early stage? There was nothing at that time for reason to work upon. Whether she was moral, aimiable, sensible, or even of good character, you did not, nor could not then know; except perhaps you might infer the last from the company you found her in. All you then did or could know of her, was her personal appearance and deportment ; and these, if they impress at all, impress the heart and not the head. Say candidly, were not those heavenly black eyes , the whole basis of all your easily reasoning on the subject? After you and I had once been at her residence, did you not go and take me all the way to Lexington and back, for no other purpose but to get to see her again, on our return, [in that] seeming to take a trip for that express object? What earthly consideration would you take to find her scouting and despising you, and giving herself up to another? But of this you have no apprehension; and therefore you can not bring it home to your feelings. I shall be so anxious about you, that I want you to write me every mail. Your friend LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Bank Account of Stuart & Lincoln
Jany. 24th. 1842.
I this day drew $71.70 cents being the ballance of Stuart & Lincoln's deposit in Bank,  and deposited $60.41 cents thereof to the credit of Logan & Lincoln, $20. of which is for the use of Stout, Ingoldsby & Co  and $40.41 for the use of Daniel Stafford Jr.  The remaining $11.29, not knowing exactly to whom it belongs, I have put in my pocket, holding myself responsible to whomever may hereafter prove to be the owner. A. LINCOLN 1842---Feb 28---$50 of the above this day drawn from Bank and loaned to Noah Richard,  with Noah Matheny as surety LINCOLN

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, Ills. Feby. 3- 1842-
Your letter of the 25th. Jany. came to hand to-day. You well know that I do not feel my own sorrows much more keenly than I do yours, when I know of them; and yet I assure you I was not much hurt by what you wrote me of your excessively bad feeling at the time you wrote. Not that I am less capable of sympathising with you now than ever; not that I am less your friend than ever, but because I hope and believe, that your present anxiety and distress about her  health and her life, must and will forever banish those horid doubts, which I know you sometimes felt, as to the truth of your affection for her. If they can be once and forever removed, (and I almost feel a presentiment that the Almighty has sent your present affliction expressly for that object) surely, nothing can come in their stead, to fill their immeasurable measure of misery. The death scenes of those we love, are surely painful enough; but these we are prepared to, and expect to see. They happen to all, and all know they must happen. Painful as they are, they are not an unlooked-for-sorrow. Should she, as you fear, be destined to an early grave, it is indeed, a great consolation to know that she is so well prepared to meet it. Her religion, which you once disliked so much, I will venture you now prize most highly. But I hope your melancholly bodings as to her early death, are not well founded. I even hope, that ere this reaches you, she will have returned with improved and still improving health; and that you will have met her, and forgotten the sorrows of the past, in the enjoyment of the present. I would say more if I could; but it seems I have said enough. It really appears to me that you yourself ought to rejoice, and not sorrow, at this indubitable evidence of your undying affection for her. Why Speed, if you did not love her, although you might not wish her death, you would most calmly be resigned to it. Perhaps this point is no longer a question with you, and my pertenacious dwelling upon it, is a rude intrusion upon your feelings. If so, you must pardon me. You know the Hell I have suffered on that point, and how tender I am upon it. You know I do not mean wrong. I have been quite clear of hypo  since you left,---even better than I was along in the fall. I have seen Sarah  but once. She seemed verry cheerful, and so, I said nothing to her about what we spoke of. Old uncle Billy Herndon  is dead; and it is said this evening that uncle Ben Ferguson  will not live. This I believe is all the news, and enough at that unless it were better. Write me immediately on the receipt of this. Your friend, as ever LINCOLN

Eulogy on Benjamin Ferguson
February 8, 1842
Mr. PRESIDENT:---The solemn duty has been assigned to me, of announcing to this Society,  the sudden and melancholy death of its much respected member, BENJAMIN FERGUSON. After an illness of only six days, he closed his mortal existence, at a quarter past seven on the evening of the 3d inst., in the bosom of his family at his residence in this city. Mr. FERGUSON was one who became a member of this society without any prospect of advantage to himself. He was, though not totally abstinent, strictly temperate before; and he espoused the cause solely with the hope and benevolent design of being able, by his efforts and example, to benefit others. Would to God, he had been longer spared to the humane work upon which he had so disinterestedly entered. In his intercourse with his fellow men, he possessed that rare uprightness of character, which was evidenced by his having no disputes or bickerings of his own, while he was ever the chosen arbiter to settle those of his neighbors. In very truth he was, the noblest work of God---an honest man. The grateful task commonly vouchsafed to the mournful living, of casting the mantle of charitable forgetfulness over the faults of the lamented dead, is denied to us: for although it is much to say, for any of the erring family of man, we believe we may say, that he whom we deplore was faultless. To Almighty God we commend him; and, in his name, implore the aid and protection, of his omnipotent right arm, for his bereaved and disconsolate family.

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, Ills. Feby. 13. 1842-
Yours of the 1st. Inst. came to hand three or four days ago. When this shall reach you, you will have been Fanny's husband several days.  You know my desire to befriend you is everlasting---that I will never cease, while I know how to do any thing. But you will always hereafter, be on ground that I have never ocupied, and consequently, if advice were needed, I might advise wrong. I do fondly hope, however, that you will never again need any comfort from abroad. But should I be mistaken in this---should excessive pleasure still be accompanied with a painful counterpart at times, still let me urge you, as I have ever done, to remember in the dep[t]h and even the agony of despondency, that verry shortly you are to feel well again. I am now fully convinced, that you love her as ardently as you are capable of loving. Your ever being happy in her presence, and your intense anxiety about her health, if there were nothing else, would place this beyond all dispute in my mind. I incline to think it probable, that your nerves will fail you occassionally for a while; but once you get them fairly graded now, that trouble is over forever. I think if I were you, in case my mind were not exactly right, I would avoid being idle ; I would immediately engage in some business, or go to making preparations for it, which would be the same thing. If you went through the ceremony calmly , or even with sufficient composure not to excite alarm in any present, you are safe, beyond question, and in two or three months, to say the most, will be the happiest of men. I hope with tolerable confidence, that this letter is a plaster for a place that is no longer sore. God grant it may be so. I would desire you to give my particular respects to Fanny, but perhaps you will not wish her to know you have received this, lest she should desire to see it. Make her write me an answer to my last letter to her at any rate.  I would set great value upon another letter from her. Write me whenever you have leisure. Yours forever. A. LINCOLN P.S. I have been quite a man ever since you left.

To Garland B. Shelledy
G. B. Shelody: Esqr. Springfield, Ills., Feby. 16- 1842-
Yours of the 10th. is duly received. Judge Logan  & myself are doing business together now and we are willing to attend to your cases as you propose. As to the terms, we are willing to attend each case you prepare and send us for $10---(when there shall be no opposition,) to be sent in advance, or you to know that it is safe. It takes $5.75 of cost to start upon, that is, $1.75 to clerk, and $2--- to each of two publishers of papers. Judge Logan thinks it will take the ballance of $20 to carry a case through. This must be advanced from time to time as the services are performed, as the officers will not act without. I do not know whether you can be admitted an attorney of the Federal court in your absence or not; nor is it material, as the business can be done in our names. Thinking it may aid you a little, I send you one of our blank forms of Petitions. It, you will see, is framed to be sworn to before the Federal court clerk, and, in your cases, will have [to] be so far changed, as to be sworn to before the clerk of your circuit court; and his certificate must be accompanied with his official seal. The schedules too, must be attended to. Be sure that they contain the creditors names , their residences , the amounts due each, the debtors names , their residences , and the amounts they owe, also all property and where located. Also be sure that the Schedules are signed by the applicants as well as the Petition. Publication will have to be made here in one paper, and in one nearest the residence of the applicant. Write us in each case where this last advertisement is to be sent---whether to you or to what paper. I believe I have now said every thing that can be of any advantage. Your friend, as ever A. LINCOLN

Temperance Address

AN ADDRESS, Delivered before the Springfield Washington Temperance Society, on the 22d February, 1842- BY ABRAHAM LINCOLN, ESQ., And published by direction of the Society. Although the Temperance cause has been in progress for near twenty years, it is apparent to all, that it is, just now , being crowned with a degree of success, hitherto unparalleled. The list of its friends is daily swelled by the additions of fifties, of hundreds, and of thousands. The cause itself seems suddenly transformed from a cold abstract theory, to a living, breathing, active, and powerful chieftain, going forth ``conquering and to conquer.'' The citadels of his great adversary are daily being stormed and dismantled; his temples and his altars, where the rites of his idolatrous worship have long been performed, and where human sacrifices have long been wont to be made, are daily desecrated and deserted. The trump of the conqueror's fame is sounding from hill to hill, from sea to sea, and from land to land, and calling millions to his standard at a blast. For this new and splendid success, we heartily rejoice. That that success is so much greater now than heretofore , is doubtless owing to rational causes; and if we would have it to continue, we shall do well to enquire what those causes are. The warfare heretofore waged against the demon of Intemperance, has, some how or other, been erroneous. Either the champions engaged, or the tactics they adopted, have not been the most proper. These champions for the most part, have been Preachers, Lawyers, and hired agents. Between these and the mass of mankind, there is a want of approachability , if the term be admissible, partially at least, fatal to their success. They are supposed to have no sympathy of feeling or interest, with those very persons whom it is their object to convince and persuade. And again, it is so easy and so common to ascribe motives to men of these classes, other than those they profess to act upon. The preacher , it is said, advocates temperance because he is a fanatic, and desires a union of Church and State; the lawyer , from his pride and vanity of hearing himself speak; and the hired agent , for his salary. But when one, who has long been known as a victim of intemperance, bursts the fetters that have bound him, and appears before his neighbors ``clothed, and in his right mind,'' a redeemed specimen of long lost humanity, and stands up with tears of joy trembling in eyes, to tell of the miseries once endured, now to be endured no more forever; of his once naked and starving children, now clad and fed comfortably; of a wife long weighed down with woe, weeping, and a broken heart, now restored to health, happiness, and renewed affection; and how easily it all is done, once it is resolved to be done; however simple his language, there is a logic, and an eloquence in it, that few, with human feelings, can resist. They cannot say that he desires a union of church and state, for he is not a church member; they can not say he is vain of hearing himself speak, for his whole demeanor shows, he would gladly avoid speaking at all; they cannot say he speaks for pay for he receives none, and asks for none. Nor can his sincerity in any way be doubted; or his sympathy for those he would persuade to imitate his example, be denied. In my judgment, it is to the battles of this new class of champions that our late success is greatly, perhaps chiefly, owing. But, had the old school champions themselves, been of the most wise selecting, was their system of tactics, the most judicious? It seems to me, it was not. Too much denunciation against dram sellers and dram-drinkers was indulged in. This, I think, was both impolitic and unjust. It was impolitic , because, it is not much in the nature of man to be driven to any thing; still less to be driven about that which is exclusively his own business; and least of all, where such driving is to be submitted to, at the expense of pecuniary interest, or burning appetite. When the dram-seller and drinker, were incessantly told, not in the accents of entreaty and persuasion, diffidently addressed by erring man to an erring brother; but in the thundering tones of anathema and denunciation, with which the lordly Judge often groups together all the crimes of the felon's life, and thrusts them in his face just ere he passes sentence of death upon him, that they were the authors of all the vice and misery and crime in the land; that they were the manufacturers and material of all the thieves and robbers and murderers that infested the earth; that their houses were the workshops of the devil; and that their persons should be shunned by all the good and virtuous, as moral pestilences---I say, when they were told all this, and in this way, it is not wonderful that they were slow, very slow , to acknowledge the truth of such denunciations, and to join the ranks of their denouncers, in a hue and cry against themselves. To have expected them to do otherwise than as they did---to have expected them not to meet denunciation with denunciation, crimination with crimination, and anathema with anathema, was to expect a reversal of human nature, which is God's decree, and never can be reversed. When the conduct of men is designed to be influenced, persuasion , kind, unassuming persuasion, should ever be adopted. It is an old and a true maxim, that a ``drop of honey catches more flies than a gallon of gall.'' So with men. If you would win a man to your cause, first convince him that you are his sincere friend. Therein is a drop of honey that catches his heart, which, say what he will, is the great high road to his reason, and which, when once gained, you will find but little trouble in convincing his judgment of the justice of your cause, if indeed that cause really be a just one. On the contrary, assume to dictate to his judgment, or to command his action, or to mark him as one to be shunned and despised, and he will retreat within himself, close all the avenues to his head and his heart; and tho' your cause be naked truth itself, transformed to the heaviest lance, harder than steel, and sharper than steel can be made, and tho' you throw it with more than Herculean force and precision, you shall no more be able to pierce him, than to penetrate the hard shell of a tortoise with a rye straw. Such is man, and so must he be understood by those who would lead him, even to his own best interest. On this point, the Washingtonians greatly excel the temperance advocates of former times. Those whom they desire to convince and persuade, are their old friends and companions. They know they are not demons, nor even the worst of men. They know that generally, they are kind, generous and charitable, even beyond the example of their more staid and sober neighbors. They are practical philanthropists; and they glow with a generous and brotherly zeal, that mere theorizers are incapable of feeling. Benevolence and charity possess their hearts entirely; and out of the abundance of their hearts, their tongues give utterance. ``Love through all their actions runs, and all their words are mild.'' In this spirit they speak and act, and in the same, they are heard and regarded. And when such is the temper of the advocate, and such of the audience, no good cause can be unsuccessful. But I have said that denunciations against dram-sellers and dram-drinkers, are unjust as well as impolitic. Let us see. I have not enquired at what period of time the use of intoxicating drinks commenced; nor is it important to know. It is sufficient that to all of us who now inhabit the world, the practice of drinking them, is just as old as the world itself,---that is, we have seen the one, just as long as we have seen the other. When all such of us, as have now reached the years of maturity, first opened our eyes upon the stage of existence, we found intoxicating liquor, recognized by every body, used by every body, and repudiated by nobody. It commonly entered into the first draught of the infant, and the last draught of the dying man. From the sideboard of the parson, down to the ragged pocket of the houseless loafer, it was constantly found. Physicians prescribed it in this, that, and the other disease. Government provided it for its soldiers and sailors; and to have a rolling or raising, a husking or hoe-down, any where without it, was positively insufferable . So too, it was every where a respectable article of manufacture and of merchandize. The making of it was regarded as an honorable livelihood; and he who could make most, was the most enterprising and respectable. Large and small manufactories of it were every where erected, in which all the earthly goods of their owners were invested. Wagons drew it from town to town---boats bore it from clime to clime, and the winds wafted it from nation to nation; and merchants bought and sold it, by wholesale and by retail, with precisely the same feelings, on the part of seller, buyer, and bystander, as are felt at the selling and buying of flour, beef, bacon, or any other of the real necessaries of life. Universal public opinion not only tolerated, but recognized and adopted its use. It is true, that even then , it was known and acknowledged, that many were greatly injured by it; but none seemed to think the injury arose from the use of a bad thing , but from the abuse of a very good thing . The victims to it were pitied, and compassionated, just as now are, the heirs of consumptions, and other hereditary diseases. Their failing was treated as a misfortune , and not as a crime , or even as a disgrace . If, then, what I have been saying be true, is it wonderful, that some should think and act now , as all thought and acted twenty years ago ? And is it just to assail, contemn , or despise them, for doing so? The universal sense of mankind, on any subject, is an argument, or at least an influence not easily overcome. The success of the argument in favor of the existence of an over-ruling Providence, mainly depends upon that sense; and men ought not, in justice, to be denounced for yielding to it, in any case, or for giving it up slowly, especially , where they are backed by interest, fixed habits, or burning appetites. Another error, as it seems to me, into which the old reformers fell, was, the position that all habitual drunkards were utterly incorrigible, and therefore, must be turned adrift, and damned without remedy, in order that the grace of temperance might abound to the temperate then , and to all mankind some hundred years thereafter . There is in this something so repugnant to humanity, so uncharitable, so cold-blooded and feelingless, that it never did, nor ever can enlist the enthusiasm of a popular cause. We could not love the man who taught it---we could not hear him with patience. The heart could not throw open its portals to it. The generous man could not adopt it. It could not mix with his blood. It looked so fiendishly selfish, so like throwing fathers and brothers overboard, to lighten the boat for our security---that the noble minded shrank from the manifest meanness of the thing. And besides this, the benefits of a reformation to be effected by such a system, were too remote in point of time, to warmly engage many in its behalf. Few can be induced to labor exclusively for posterity; and none will do it enthusiastically. Posterity has done nothing for us; and theorise on it as we may, practically we shall do very little for it, unless we are made to think, we are, at the same time, doing something for ourselves. What an ignorance of human nature does it exhibit, to ask or expect a whole community to rise up and labor for the temporal happiness of others after themselves shall be consigned to the dust, a majority of which community take no pains whatever to secure their own eternal welfare, at a no greater distant day? Great distance, in either time or space, has wonderful power to lull and render quiescent the human mind. Pleasures to be enjoyed, or pains to be endured, after we shall be dead and gone, are but little regarded, even in our own cases, and much less in the cases of others. Still, in addition to this, there is something so ludicrous in promises of good, or threats of evil, a great way off, as to render the whole subject with which they are connected, easily turned into ridicule. ``Better lay down that spade you're stealing, Paddy,---if you don't you'll pay for it at the day of judgment.'' ``By the powers, if ye'll credit me so long, I'll take another, jist.'' By the Washingtonians, this system of consigning the habitual drunkard to hopeless ruin, is repudiated. They adopt a more enlarged philanthropy. They go for present as well as future good. They labor for all now living, as well as all hereafter to live. They teach hope to all--- despair to none. As applying to their cause, they deny the doctrine of unpardonable sin. As in Christianity it is taught, so in this they teach, that ``While the lamp holds out to burn, The vilest sinner may return.'' And, what is matter of the most profound gratulation, they, by experiment upon experiment, and example upon example, prove the maxim to be no less true in the one case than in the other. On every hand we behold those, who but yesterday, were the chief of sinners, now the chief apostles of the cause. Drunken devils are cast out by ones, by sevens, and by legions; and their unfortunate victims, like the poor possessed, who was redeemed from his long and lonely wanderings in the tombs, are publishing to the ends of the earth, how great things have been done for them. To these new champions , and this new system of tactics, our late success is mainly owing; and to them we must chiefly look for the final consummation. The ball is now rolling gloriously on, and none are so able as they to increase its speed, and its bulk---to add to its momentum, and its magnitude. Even though unlearned in letters, for this task, none others are so well educated. To fit them for this work, they have been taught in the true school. They have been in that gulf, from which they would teach others the means of escape. They have passed that prison wall, which others have long declared impassable; and who that has not, shall dare to weigh opinions with them , as to the mode of passing. But if it be true, as I have insisted, that those who have suffered by intemperance personally , and have reformed, are the most powerful and efficient instruments to push the reformation to ultimate success, it does not follow, that those who have not suffered, have no part left them to perform. Whether or not the world would be vastly benefitted by a total and final banishment from it of all intoxicating drinks, seems to me not now to be an open question. Three-fourths of mankind confess the affirmative with their tongues , and, I believe, all the rest acknowledge it in their hearts . Ought any , then, to refuse their aid in doing what the good of the whole demands? Shall he, who cannot do much , be, for that reason, excused if he do nothing ? ``But,'' says one, ``what good can I do by signing the pledge? I never drink even without signing.'' This question has already been asked and answered more than millions of times. Let it be answered once more. For the man to suddenly, or in any other way, to break off from the use of drams, who has indulged in them for a long course of years, and until his appetite for them has become ten or a hundred fold stronger, and more craving, than any natural appetite can be, requires a most powerful moral effort. In such an undertaking, he needs every moral support and influence, that can possibly be brought to his aid, and thrown around him. And not only so; but every moral prop, should be taken from whatever argument might rise in his mind to lure him to his backsliding. When he casts his eyes around him, he should be able to see, all that he respects, all that he admires, and all that [he?] loves, kindly and anxiously pointing him onward; and none beckoning him back, to his former miserable ``wallowing in the mire.'' But it is said by some, that men will think and act for themselves; that none will disuse spirits or any thing else, merely because his neighbors do; and that moral influence is not that powerful engine contended for. Let us examine this. Let me ask the man who would maintain this position most stiffly, what compensation he will accept to go to church some Sunday and sit during the sermon with his wife's bonnet upon his head? Not a trifle, I'll venture. And why not? There would be nothing irreligious in it: nothing immoral, nothing uncomfortable. Then why not? Is it not because there would be something egregiously unfashionable in it? Then it is the influence of fashion ; and what is the influence of fashion, but the influence that other people's actions have [on our own?] actions, the strong inclination each of us feels to do as we see all our neighbors do? Nor is the influence of fashion confined to any particular thing or class of things. It is just as strong on one subject as another. Let us make it as unfashionable to withhold our names from the temperance pledge as for husbands to wear their wives bonnets to church, and instances will be just as rare in the one case as the other. ``But,'' say some, ``we are no drunkards; and we shall not acknowledge ourselves such by joining a reformed drunkard's society, whatever our influence might be.'' Surely no Christian will adhere to this objection. If they believe, as they profess, that Omnipotence condescended to take on himself the form of sinful man, and, as such, to die an ignominious death for their sakes, surely they will not refuse submission to the infinitely lesser condescension, for the temporal, and perhaps eternal salvation, of a large, erring, and unfortunate class of their own fellow creatures. Nor is the condescension very great. In my judgment, such of us as have never fallen victims, have been spared more from the absence of appetite, than from any mental or moral superiority over those who have. Indeed, I believe, if we take habitual drunkards as a class, their heads and their hearts will bear an advantageous comparison with those of any other class. There seems ever to have been a proneness in the brilliant, and the warm-blooded, to fall into this vice. The demon of intemperance ever seems to have delighted in sucking the blood of genius and of generosity. What one of us but can call to mind some dear relative, more promising in youth than all his fellows, who has fallen a sacrifice to his rapacity? He ever seems to have gone forth, like the Egyptian angel of death, commissioned to slay if not the first, the fairest born of every family. Shall he now be arrested in his desolating career? In that arrest, all can give aid that will; and who shall be excused that can , and will not? Far around as human breath has ever blown, he keeps our fathers, our brothers, our sons, and our friends, prostrate in the chains of moral death. To all the living every where, we cry, ``come sound the moral resurrection trump, that these may rise and stand up, an exceeding great army''---``Come from the four winds, O breath! and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.'' If the relative grandeur of revolutions shall be estimated by the great amount of human misery they alleviate, and the small amount they inflict, then, indeed, will this be the grandest the world shall ever have seen. Of our political revolution of '76, we all are justly proud. It has given us a degree of political freedom, far exceeding that of any other of the nations of the earth. In it the world has found a solution of that long mooted problem, as to the capability of man to govern himself. In it was the germ which has vegetated, and still is to grow and expand into the universal liberty of mankind. But with all these glorious results, past, present, and to come, it had its evils too. It breathed forth famine, swam in blood and rode on fire; and long, long after, the orphan's cry, and the widow's wail, continued to break the sad silence that ensued. These were the price, the inevitable price, paid for the blessings it bought. Turn now, to the temperance revolution. In it , we shall find a stronger bondage broken; a viler slavery, manumitted; a greater tyrant deposed. In it , more of want supplied, more disease healed, more sorrow assuaged. By it no orphans starving, no widows weeping. By it , none wounded in feeling, none injured in interest. Even the dram-maker, and dram seller, will have glided into other occupations so gradually, as never to have felt the shock of change; and will stand ready to join all others in the universal song of gladness. And what a noble ally this, to the cause of political freedom. With such an aid, its march cannot fail to be on and on, till every son of earth shall drink in rich fruition, the sorrow quenching draughts of perfect liberty. Happy day, when, all appetites controled, all passions subdued, all matters subjected, mind , all conquering mind , shall live and move the monarch of the world. Glorious consummation! Hail fall of Fury! Reign of Reason, all hail! And when the victory shall be complete---when there shall be neither a slave nor a drunkard on the earth---how proud the title of that Land , which may truly claim to be the birth-place and the cradle of both those revolutions, that shall have ended in that victory. How nobly distinguished that People, who shall have planted, and nurtured to maturity, both the political and moral freedom of their species. This is the one hundred and tenth anniversary of the birth-day of Washington. We are met to celebrate this day. Washington is the mightiest name of earth--- long since mightiest in the cause of civil liberty; still mightiest in moral reformation. On that name, an eulogy is expected. It cannot be. To add brightness to the sun, or glory to the name of Washington, is alike impossible. Let none attempt it. In solemn awe pronounce the name, and in its naked deathless splendor, leave it shining on.

Promissory Note of James Gambrel
Springfield. Feby. 24th. 1842
On or before the first day of November next I promise to pay A. Lincoln twenty dollars in good fire wood about four feet in length, at the selling price when delivered, to be delivered at any place designated by said Lincoln, in the city of Springfield---for value received. JAMES GAMBREL

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, Feb: 25- 1842-
I received yours of the 12th. written the day you went down to William's place, some days since; but delayed answering it, till I should receive the promised one, of the 16th., which came last night. I opened the latter, with intense anxiety and trepidation---so much, that although it turned out better than I expected, I have hardly yet, at the distance of ten hours, become calm. I tell you, Speed, our forebodings , for which you and I are rather peculiar, are all the worst sort of nonsense. I fancied, from the time I received your letter of saturday , that the one of wednesday was never to come; and yet it did come, and what is more, it is perfectly clear, both from it's tone and handwriting , that you were much happier , or, if you think the term preferable, less miserable , when you wrote it , than when you wrote the last one before. You had so obviously improved, at the verry time I so much feared, you would have grown worse. You say that ``something indescribably horrible and alarming still haunts you.[''] You will not say that three months from now, I will venture. When your nerves once get steady now, the whole trouble will be over forever. Nor should you become impatient at their being even verry slow, in becoming steady. Again; you say you much fear that that Elysium of which you have dreamed so much, is never to be realized. Well, if it shall not, I dare swear, it will not be the fault of her who is now your wife. I now have no doubt that it is the peculiar misfortune of both you and me, to dream dreams of Elysium far exceeding all that any thing earthly can realize. Far short of your dreams as you may be, no woman could do more to realize them, than that same black eyed Fanny. If you could but contemplate her through my immagination, it would appear ridiculous to you, that any one should for a moment think of being unhappy with her. My old Father used to have a saying that ``If you make a bad bargain, hug it the tighter''; and it occurs to me, that if the bargain you have just closed can possibly be called a bad one, it is certainly the most pleasant one for applying that maxim to, which my fancy can, by any effort, picture. I write another letter enclosing this, which you can show her, if she desires it.  I do this, because, she would think strangely perhaps should you tell her that you receive no letters from me; or, telling her you do, should refuse to let her see them. I close this, entertaining the confident hope, that every successive letter I shall have from you, (which I here pray may not be few, nor far between,) may show you possessing a more steady hand, and cheerful heart, than the last preceding it. As ever, your friend LINCOLN

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, Feby. 25- 1842-
Yours of the 16th. Inst. announcing that Miss Fanny  and you ``are no more twain, but one flesh,'' reached me this morning. I have no way of telling how much happiness I wish you both; tho' I believe you both can conceive it. I fell som[e] what jealous of both of you now; you will be so exclusively concerned for one another, that I shall be forgotten entirely. My acquaintance with Miss Fanny (I call her thus, lest you should think I am speaking of your mother) was too short for me to reasonably hope to long be remembered by her; and still, I am sure, I shall not forget her soon. Try if you can not remind her of that debt she owes me; and be sure you do not interfere to prevent her paying it. I regret to learn that you have resolved to not return to Illinois. I shall be verry lonesome without you. How miserably things seem to be arranged in this world. If we have no friends, we have no pleasure; and if we have them, we are sure to lose them, and be doubly pained by the loss. I did hope she and you would make your home here; but I own I have no right to insist. You owe obligations to her, ten thousand times more sacred than any you can owe to others; and, in that light, let them be respected and observed. It is natural that she should desire to remain with her relatives and friends. As to friends, however, she could not need them any where; she would have them in abundance here. Give my kind rememberance to Mr. Williamson and his family, particularly Miss Elizabeth  ---also to your Mother, brothers, and sisters. Ask little Eliza Davis  if she will ride to town with me if I come there again. And, finally, give Fanny a double reciprocation of all the love she sent me. Write me often, and believe me Yours forever LINCOLN P.S. Poor Eastham  is gone at last. He died a while before day this morning. They say he was verry loth to die. No clerk is appointed yet. L.

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, March 27th. 1842
Yours of the 10th. Inst. was received three or four days since. You know I am sincere, when I tell you, the pleasure it's contents gave me was and is inexpressible. As to your farm matter, I have no sympathy with you. I have no farm, nor ever expect to have; and, consequently, have not studied the subject enough to be much interested with it. I can only say that I am glad you are satisfied and pleased with it. But on that other subject, to me of the most intense interest, whether in joy or sorrow, I never had the power to withhold my sympathy from you. It can not be told, how it now thrills me with joy, to hear you say you are `` far happier than you ever expected to be .'' That much I know is enough. I know you too well to suppose your expectations were not, at least sometimes, extravagant; and if the reality exceeds them all, I say, enough, dear Lord. I am not going beyond the truth, when I tell you, that the short space it took me to read your last letter, gave me more pleasure, than the total sum of all I have enjoyed since that fatal first of Jany.'41  . Since then, it seems to me, I should have been entirely happy, but for the never-absent idea, that there is one still unhappy whom I have contributed to make so. That still kills my soul. I can not but reproach myself, for even wishing to be happy while she is otherwise. She accompanied a large party on the Rail Road cars, to Jack-sonville last monday; and on her return, spoke, so that I heard of it, of having enjoyed the trip exceedingly. God be praised for that. You know with what sleepless vigilance I have watched you, ever since the commencement of your affair; and altho' I am now almost confident it is useless, I can not forbear once more to say that I think it is even yet possible for your spirits to flag down and leave you miserable. If they should, dont fail to remember that they can not long remain so. One thing I can tell you which I know you will be glad to hear; and that is, that I have seen Sarah,  and scrutinized her feelings as well as I could, and am fully convinced, she is far happier now, than she has been for the last fifteen months past. You will see by the last Sangamo Journal that I made a Temperance speech on the 22. of Feb. which I claim that Fanny and you shall read as an act of charity to me; for I can not learn that any body else has read it, or is likely to. Fortunately, it is not very long and I shall deem it a sufficient compliance with my request, if one of you listens while the other reads it. As to your Lockridge matter, it is only necessary to say that there has been no court since you left, and that the next, commences to-morrow morning, during which I suppose we can not fail to get a judgement.  I wish you would learn of Everett  what he will take, over and above a discharge for all trouble we have been at, to take his business out of our hands and give it to somebody else. It is impossible to collect money on that or any other claim here now; and altho' you know I am not a very petulant ma[n,] I declare I am almost out of patience with [Mr.] Everett's endless importunity. It seems like [he n]to only writes all the letters he can himself; b[ut] gets every body else in Louisville and vicinity to be constantly writing to us about his claim. I have always [h]eard that Mr. Evere[tt is] a very clever fellow, and I am very [sorry] he can not be obliged; but it does seem to me he ought to know we are interested [to] collect his money, and therefore would do [it] if we could. I am neither joking nor in a [pet] when I say we would thank him to transfer h[is] business to some other, without any compensation for what we have done, provided he will see the court cost paid, for which we are security. The sweet violet you enclosed, came safely to hand, but it was so dry, and mashed so fla[t,] that it crumbled to dust at the first attempt to handle it. The juice that mashed out of it, stained a [place] on the letter, which I mean to preserve and ch[erish] for the sake of her who procured it to be se[nt.] My renewed good wishes to her, in particula[r,] and generally to all such of your relatives as know me. As ever LINCOLN

Petition for Pardon of Michael Hill
April 2, 1842
To his Excellency, Thomas Carlin, Governor of the State of Illinois--- The undersigned, your petitioners, respectfully represent that Michael Hill has, at the March term (now in session) of the Sangamon circuit court, been tried on an indictment for manslaughter, and a verdict of guilty, and that he be confined in the penitentiary for the term of one year and ten days found against him; that your petitioners are the jurors that rendered the verdict; that, under their oaths, they felt it their duty to render such verdict as they did, but that, considering the circumstances, they deem Mr. Hill a most fit subject for the Executive clemency; that he is an elderly, respectable, and peaceful citizen, with a large and respected family; that he was highly provoked, by oft repeated and long continued abuse, to strike the fatal blow, and that, when he did strike, it is agreed by all, he had no intention of killing, or very seriously hurting the unfortunate deceased. They therefore respectfully request, that your Excellency will grant him a full pardon of the entire punishment imposed by the law in the case. April 2. 1842.

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed Springfield April 13, 1842
Your letter to the judge and me in relation to some claims of yours to be put in our hands by Mr. Hurst  was received some days since. The notes have not yet been handed over to us, tho they will be at any moment we desire them. The best information we can give as to the solvency of the men you mention---is that so far as we can learn, they stand precisely as they did, when you left. We have got a judgment against Lockridge as you anticipate, and Bell,  by some conversational arrangement with him, has been induced to direct us to stay the execution a few months. As to Mr. Richards note, the judge I presume will attend to it, but for me I cannot even dun him. John Bran[s]on called on me to-day and begged to not be sued.  He says he admits it to have been owing long enough---to be paid but that he will positively pay sooner than collection could be made by law---and that he will give most any security we will ask, write us what we shall do with him. On saturday last we had a whig county convention to nominate candidates, and now guess who compose the ticket. For Representatives Wm. Caldwell, Sugar Creek, James Brown Island grove, Wm. Hickman Mechanicsburg, and judge Logan  in town. Col. Elkin  for sheriff again. Billy Herndon  & Dr. McNeil  are candidates for the legislature on their own hooks, & Harvey  in like manner for sheriff. Our ticket is very popular---and will certainly succeed with great ease. Edwards  is a little mortified tho' he is quite quiet---and has permitted no one but me to know his feelings---he goes for the ticket without complaint. Give my love to your dear Fanny and remind her once more of that letter she owes me. Are not she and you going to pay us a visit during the summer or autumn. As ever yours A. LINCOLN

To G. W. Hawley
Mr. G. W. Hawley Springfield, April 18. 1842
Inclosed are the papers in your case, which together with your property and credits must be delivered up to the assignee at once. We have written the letters and sent them to your distant creditors according to the rule. You must give the personal notices to your creditors residing in your own county. Your cash account with us stands as follows. To your credit. State Bank $10.00 `` Shawneetown 10.00 ----- 20.00 Of this we have expended of state Bank $6.00 leaving on hand $4.00. Of the Shawnee, we have expended for these papers $3.00, for postage on your letter 371/2 cents; for 70 day publication $4.00. in all $7.371/2 leaving on hand $2.621/2. Yours &c. LOGAN & LINCOLN

To Frederick A. Thomas
Friend Thomas: Springfield, April 21 1842-
Yours of the 11th Inst. was received some days since. As to the Rules, it would be useless to send you copy; in asmuch as the Supreme court of the U.S. have adopted a set of Rules, which supercede, the rules adopted by the District court. The Supreme court Rules have not yet reached us. The personal attendance here of your friend Dr. Flanders  is not absolutely necessary. When you get hold of the rules, make out his papers according to them, and send them to me, and I will do my part here, for whatever you charge him for doing your part there. One thing bear constantly in mind; that is, that unless I am furnished with money to pay cost as the case progresses, I can not move an inch---and State Bank paper will not do, at that.  The whole cost, exclusive of lawyer's fees, will be, as we think, about $20. in something at least as good as Shawnee. Yours &c. A. LINCOLN P.S. Tell J. K. Dubois  he must come to the Legislature again; that I am off the track, and that the wheels of government will inevitably stop without the aid of one of us. A. L.

Document Drawn for Joseph Torrey and F. L. King to William Butler and Thomas Moffett
April 27, 1842
Whereas William Butler and Thomas Moffett are sureties on a certain promissory note for the sum of three hundred dollars with twelve per cent interest from date until paid payable to P. C. Latham three weeks after date, and bearing date Sept. 22, 1839 to which note Joseph Torr[e]y & Co. are principals, and of which firm I am a member, and have assumed to pay said note. Now therefore to secure said Butler and Moffett from paying said note or any part thereof I transfer all book accounts due to me to them; and for this same purpose I assign to [them the?] notes of which the following is a list, towit. [Here is omitted a list of seventy-three debtors with the amount due from each of them]. And for the same purpose I transfer to said Moffett and Butler a judgement in the Sangamon circuit court in favour of said Joseph Torr[e]y & Co against Folsom Dorset, for the sum of $636.21 cents rendered Nov. 17, 1841. Said accounts, notes, and judgement, are to be in the custody and control of Turner R. King as the mutual agent of the parties who is to collect the money due thereon as fast as possible, and apply the same to the payment of the note first, mentioned, and to return the overplus if any to me. In testimony whereof I hereunto set my hand this 27th. day of April 1842. F. L. KING By T. R. King

Petition for an Increase of the Tariff
[May 12, 1842]
To the Honorable Senate and House of Representatives in Congress assembled : The undersigned citizens of Sangamon County  of the State of Illinois, respectfully request Congress to establish by law a TARIFF of duties, so as to prevent excessive importations of goods, and excessive exportations of specie; to create a Home market for agricultural productions; a Home demand for the skill and industry of our people; to raise revenue enough to relieve the nation from debt and to support the government, and so to foster our manufactures as to make our nation PROSPEROUS in Peace and INDEPENDENT in War.

Circular to Henry E. Dummer and Others
(CONFIDENTIAL) Gentlemen Springfield July 2d 1842
Some difficulty arises under the apportionment Bill of the last session as to the number of Senators to be elected, and the districts which they are to represent. The Locofoco party, availing themselves as usual of every opportunity to secure and increase their power, are running a Senator from Cook and one from Will, while that district has a Senator (Pearson)  still in office. In the County of Green[e] they run a Senator for Green[e] and Jersey to fill a Vacancy (Allen)  and a Senator for Green[e] & Calhoun under the new Law. It is very much to be feared, that having already a majority assured in the Senate they would if the votes should be wanted give these Senators to be elected their seats right or wrong. There are difficulties in a good construction of the Law and it may be a matter of much doubt, as to what the decision may be. At any rate your District (Cass & Scott) is entitled equally with the others to a Senator, if they receive them they must receive yours, and if both should be rejected, things will be as they were. We take the liberty therfore to suggest the propriety of running a whig in your new district for a Senator, as it will be done here, and we shall at any rate either get an equal number of Senators by it or prevent them from getting any.  The chances of a majority for us on joint ballot are so good that we ought not to permit ourselves to loose it by negligence on our part, or fraud on theirs. Yours Sincerely H. E. DUMMER Esqr A. G. HENRY S. T. LOGAN & other good Whigs} E. D. BAKER A. LINCOLN N. W. EDWARDS J. SMITH P.S. It will of course be better for the Clerk to give notices of the elections, but want of time in the notice, will by no means Vitiate the Election.

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, Ills. July 4th. 1842-
Yours of the 16th. June was received only a day or two since. It was not mailed at Louisville till the 25th. You speak of the great time that has elapsed since I wrote you. Let me explain that. Your letter reached here a day or two after I started on the circuit; I was gone five or six weeks, so that I got the letter only a few days before Butler started to your country.  I thought it scarcely worth while to write you the news, which he could and would tell you more in detail. On his return, he told me you would write me soon; and so I waited for your letter. As to my having been displeased with your advice, surely you know better than that. I know you do; and therefore I will not labour to convince you. True, that subject is painfull to me; but it is not your silence, or the silence of all the world that can make me forget it. I acknowledge the correctness of your advice too; but before I resolve to do the one thing or the other, I must regain my confidence in my own ability to keep my resolves when they are made. In that ability, you know, I once prided myself as the only, or at least the chief, gem of my character; that gem I lost---how, and when, you too well know. I have not yet regained it; and until I do, I can not trust myself in any matter of much importance. I believe now that, had you understood my case at the time, as well as I understood yours afterwards, by the aid you would have given me, I should have sailed through clear; but that does not now afford me sufficient confidence, to begin that, or the like of that, again. You make a kind acknowledgement of your obligations to me for your present happiness. I am much pleased with that acknowledgement; but a thousand times more am I pleased to know, that you enjoy a degree of happiness, worthy of an acknowledgement. The truth is, I am not sure there was any merit, with me, in the part I took in your difficulty; I was drawn to it as by fate; if I would, I could not have done less than I did. I always was superstitious; and as part of my superstition, I believe God made me one of the instruments of bringing your Fanny and you together, which union, I have no doubt He had fore-ordained. Whatever he designs, he will do for me yet. ``Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord'' is my text just now. If, as you say, you have told Fanny all , I should have no objection to her seeing this letter, but for it's reference to our friend here. Let her seeing it, depend upon whether she has ever known any thing of my affair; and if she has not, do not let her. I do not think I can come to Kentucky this season. I am so poor, and make so little headway in the world, that I drop back in a month of idleness, as much as I gain in a year's rowing. I should like to visit you again. I should like to see that ``Sis'' of yours, that was absent when I was there; tho' I suppose she would run away again, if she were to hear I was coming. About your collecting business. We have sued Branson; and will sue the others to the next court, unless they give deeds of trust as you require.  Col Allen happened in the office since I commenced this letter, and promises to give a deed of trust. He says he had made the arrangement to pay you, and would have done it, but for the going down of the Shawanee [ sic ] money.  We did not get the note in time to sue Hall at the last Tazewell court.  Lockridge's property is levied on for you.  John Irwin  has done nothing with that Baker & Van Bergen matter. We will not fail to bring the suits for your use, where they are in the name of James Bell & Co. I have made you a subscriber to the Journal; and also sent the number containing the temperance speech. My respect and esteem to all your friends there; and, by your permission, my love to your Fanny. Ever yours--- LINCOLN

To Frederick A. Thomas
Friend Thomas: Springfield, July 11- 1842-
Enclosed you find your License by which you will see I have had you regularly enrolled as an attorney. The clerk is entitled to a fee of one dollar, which I have promised to see paid in one month. I therefore wish you to send me the money. It will take two dollars of State Bank or Shawneetown. As to the customary fee in Bankruptcy for which you enquire, I can not say there is any custom on the subject. On the reverse side hereof, is a commission to Ryan  as Bankrupt commissioner. Your friend A. LINCOLN

To Samuel D. Marshall
Friend Sam: Springfield, July 14. 1842-
Yours of the 15th. June, relative to the suit of Grable vs Margrave  was duly received, and I have delayed answering it till now, when I can announce the result of the case. The judgement is affirmed. So soon as the clerk has liesure to make out a copy of the mandate of the court, I will get him to do so, and send it to you, by force of which, your clerk will issue an execution. As to the fee, if you are agreed, let it be as follows. Give me credit for two years subscription to your paper,  and send me five dollars in good money or the equivalent of it in our Illinois paper. There is nothing new here. Bennett's  Mormon disclosiers [ sic ] are making some little stir here, but not very great. Ever your friend A. LINCOLN

To [Isaac P.?] Walker
Springfield, August 15, 1842.
Friend Walker: Enclosed you have an order of court allowing your assignee to sell your property on a credit. Nothing is said in it about allowing your creditors pay for what they may purchase without money. We however, think this a matter of no consequence; as it will be a matter of course to take their bonds and security, as of other purchasers, and then, in the final settlement, to set off their dividends against those bonds in whole or as far as they will go. Yours, &c., LOGAN & LINCOLN.

The ``Rebecca'' Letter
LETTER FROM THE LOST TOWNSHIPS. Dear Mr. Printer: Lost Townships, Aug. 27, 1842.
I see you printed that long letter I sent you a spell ago  ---I'm quite encouraged by it, and can't keep from writing again. I think the printing of my letters will be a good thing all round,---it will give me the benefit of being known by the world, and give the world the advantage of knowing what's going on in the Lost Townships, and give your paper respectability besides. So here come  another. Yesterday afternoon I hurried through cleaning up the dinner dishes, and stepped over to neighbor S--- to see if his wife Peggy was as well as mought be expected, and hear what they called the baby. Well, when I got there, and just turned round the corner of his log cabin, there he was setting on the door-step reading a newspaper. `How are you Jeff,' says I,---he sorter started when he heard me, for he hadn't seen me before. `Why,' says he, `I'm mad as the devil, aunt Becca.' `What about,' says I, `aint its hair the right color? None of that nonsense, Jeff---there aint an honester woman in the Lost Township than---' `Than who?' says he, `what the mischief are you about?' I began to see I was running the wrong trail, and so says I, `O nothing, I guess I was mistaken a little, that's all. But what is it you're mad about?' `Why,' says he, `I've been tugging ever since harvest getting out wheat and hauling it to the river, to raise State Bank paper enough to pay my tax this year, and a little school debt I owe; and now just as I've got it, here I open this infernal Extra Register, expecting to find it full of ``glorious democratic victories,'' and ``High Comb'd Cocks,'' when, lo and behold, I find a set of fellows calling themselves officers of State , have forbidden the tax collectors and school commissioners to receive State paper at all; and so here it is, dead on my hands.  I don't now believe all the plunder I've got will fetch ready cash enough to pay my taxes and that school debt.' I was a good deal thunderstruck myself; for that was the first I had heard of the proclamation, and my old man was pretty much in the same fix with Jeff. We both stood a moment, staring at one another without knowing what to say. At last says I, `Mr. S--- let me look at that paper.' He handed it to me, when I read the proclamation over. `There now,' says he, `did you ever see such a piece of impudence and imposition as that?' I saw Jeff was in a good tune for saying some ill-natured things, and so I tho't I would just argue a little on the contrary side, and make him rant a spell if I could. `Why,' says I, looking as dignified and thoughtful as I could, `it seems pretty tough to be sure, to have to raise silver where there's none to be raised; but then you see `` there will be danger of loss '' if it aint done.' `Loss, damnation!' says he, `I defy Daniel Webster, I defy King Solomon, I defy the world,---I defy---I defy---yes, I defy even you, aunt Becca, to show how the people can lose any thing by paying their taxes in State paper.' `Well,' says I, `you see what the officers of State say about it, and they are a desarnin set of men.' `But,' says I, `I guess you're mistaken about what the proclamation says; it don't say the people will lose any thing by the paper money being taken for taxes. It only says `` there will be danger of loss ,'' and though it is tolerable plain that the people can't lose by paying their taxes in something they can get easier than silver, instead of having to pay silver; and though it is just as plain, that the State can't lose by taking State Bank paper, however low it may be, while she owes the Bank more than the whole revenue, and can pay that paper over on her debt, dollar for dollar; still there is danger of loss to the `` officers of State ,'' and you know Jeff, we can't get along without officers of State .' `Damn officers of State,' says he, `that's what you whigs are always hurraing for.' `Now don't swear so Jeff,' says I, `you know I belong to the meetin, and swearin hurts my feelins.' `Beg pardon, aunt Becca,' says he, `but I do say its enough to make Dr. Goddard  swear, to have tax to pay in silver, for nothing only that Ford  may get his two thousand a year, and Shields his twenty four hundred a year, and Carpenter  his sixteen hundred a year, and all without ``danger of loss'' by taking it in State paper.' `Yes, yes, it's plain enough now what these officers of State mean by ``danger of loss.'' Wash,  I 'spose, actually lost fifteen hundred dollars out of the three thousand that two of these ``officers of State'' let him steal from the Treasury, by being compelled to take it in State paper. Wonder if we don't have a proclamation before long, commanding us to make up this loss to Wash in silver.' And so he went on, till his breath run out, and he had to stop. I couldn't think of any thing to say just then: and so I begun to look over the paper again. `Aye! here's another proclamation, or something like it.' `Another!' says Jeff, `and whose egg is it, pray?' I looked to the bottom of it, and read aloud, `Your obedient servant, JAS SHIELDS, Auditor.' `Aha!' says Jeff, `one of them same three fellows again. Well read it, and let's hear what of it.' I read on till I came to where it says, `` The object of this measure is to suspend the collection of the revenue for the current year .'' `Now stop, now stop,' says he, `that's a lie aready, and I don't want to hear of it.' `O may be not,' says I. `I say it---is---a---lie . --- Suspend the collection, indeed! Will the collectors that have taken their oaths to make the collection DARE to suspend it? Is there any thing in the law requiring them to perjure themselves at the bidding of Jas. Shields? Will the greedy gullet of the penitentiary be satisfied with swallowing him instead of all them if they should venture to obey him? And would he not discover some ``danger of loss'' and be off, about the time it came to taking their places? `And suppose the people attempt to suspend by refusing to pay, what then? The collectors would just jerk up their horses, and cows, and the like, and sell them to the highest bidder for silver in hand, without valuation or redemption. Why, Shields didn't believe that story himself---it was never meant for the truth. If it was true, why was it not writ till five days after the proclamation? Why didn't Carlin  and Carpenter sign it as well as Shields? Answer me that, aunt Becca. I say its a lie, and not a well told one at that. It grins out like a copper dollar. Shields is a fool as well as a liar. With him truth is out of the question, and as for getting a good bright passable lie out of him, you might as well try to strike fire from a cake of tallow. I stick to it, its all an infernal whig lie.' `A whig lie,---Highty! Tighty!!' `Yes, a whig lie; and its just like every thing the cursed British whigs do. First they'll do some devilment, and then they'll tell a lie to hide it. And they don't care how plain a lie it is; they think they can cram any sort of a one down the throats of the ignorant loco focos, as they call the democrats.' `Why, Jeff, you're crazy---you don't mean to say Shields is a whig.' ` Yes I do .' `Why, look here, the proclamation is in your own democratic paper as you call it.' `I know it, and what of that? They only printed it to let us democrats see the deviltry the whigs are at.' `Well, but Shields is the Auditor of this loco---I mean this democratic State.' `So he is, and Tyler appointed him to office.' `Tyler appointed him?' `Yes (if you must chaw it over) Tyler appointed him, or if it wasn't him it was old granny Harrison, and that's all one. I tell you, aunt Becca, there's no mistake about his being a whig---why his very looks shows it---every thing about him shows it---if I was deaf and blind I could tell him by the smell. I seed him when I was down in Springfield last winter. They had a sort of a gatherin there one night, among the grandees, they called a fair. All the galls about town was there, and all the handsome widows, and married women, finickin about, trying to look like galls, tied as tight in the middle, and puffed out at both ends like bundles of fodder that hadn't been stacked yet, but wanted stackin pretty bad. And then they had tables all round the house kivered over with baby caps, and pin-cushions, and ten thousand such little nicknacks, tryin to sell 'em to the fellows that were bowin and scrapin, and kungeerin about 'em. They wouldn't let no democrats in, for fear they'd disgust the ladies, or scare the little galls, or dirty the floor. I looked in at the window, and there was this same fellow Shields floatin about on the air, without heft or earthly substance, just like a lock of cat-fur where cats had been fightin. `He was paying his money to this one and that one, and tother one, and sufferin great loss because it wasn't silver instead of State paper; and the sweet distress he seemed to be in,---his very features, in the exstatic agony of his soul, spoke audibly and distinctly---``Dear girls, it is distressing , but I cannot marry you all. Too well I know how much you suffer; but do, do remember, it is not my fault that I am so handsome and so interesting.'' `As this last was expressed by a most exquisite contortion of his face, he seized hold of one of their hands and squeezed, and held on to it about a quarter of an hour. O, my good fellow, says I to myself, if that was one of our democratic galls in the Lost Township, the way you'd get a brass pin let into you, would be about up to the head. He a democrat! Fiddle-sticks! I tell you, aunt Becca, he's a whig, and no mistake: nobody but a whig could make such a conceity dunce of himself.' `Well,' says I, `may be he is, but if he is, I'm mistaken the worst sort. `May be so; may be so; but if I am I'll suffer by it; I'll be a democrat if it turns out that Shields is a whig; considerin you shall be a whig if he turns out a democrat.' `A bargain, by jingoes,' says he, `but how will we find out.' `Why,' says I, `we'll just write and ax the printer.' `Agreed again,' says he, `and by thunder if it does turn out that Shields is a democrat, I never will ---' `Jefferson,---Jefferson---' `What do you want, Peggy.' `Do get through your everlasting clatter some time, and bring me a gourd of water; the child's been crying for a drink this livelong hour.' `Let it die then, it may as well die for water as to be taxed to death to fatten officers of State .' Jeff run off to get the water though, just like he hadn't been sayin any thing spiteful; for he's a rall good hearted fellow, after all, once you get at the foundation of him. I walked into the house, and `why Peggy,' says I, `I declare, we like to forgot you altogether.' `O yes,' says she, `when a body can't help themselves, every body soon forgets 'em; but thank God by day after to-morrow I shall be well enough to milk the cows and pen the calves, and wring the contrary one's tails for 'em, and no thanks to nobody.' `Geod evening, Peggy,' says I, and so I sloped, for I seed she was mad at me, for making Jeff neglect her so long. And now Mr. Printer, will you be sure to let us know in your next paper whether this Shields is a whig or a democrat? I don't care about it for myself, for I know well enough how it is already, but I want to convince Jeff. It may do some good to let him, and others like him, know who and what these officers of State are. It may help to send the present hypocritical set to where they belong, and to fill the places they now disgrace with men who will do more work, for less pay, and take a fewer airs while they are doing it. It aint sensible to think that the same men who get us into trouble will change their course; and yet its pretty plain, if some change for the better is not made, its not long that neither Peggy, or I, or any of us, will have a cow left to milk, or a calf's tail to wring. Yours, truly, REBECCA---.

To Henry Clay
Hon. Henry Clay, Springfield, Illinois, Lexington, Kentucky. August 29, 1842.
Dear Sir: We hear you are to visit Indianapolis, Indiana, on the 5th of October next. If our information in this is correct, we hope you will not deny us the pleasure of seeing you in our State. We are aware of the toil necessarily incident to a journey by one circumstanced as you are; but once you have embarked, as you have already determined to do, the toil would not be greatly augmented by extending the journey to our capital. The season of the year will be most favorable for good roads and pleasant weather; and although we cannot but believe you would be highly gratified with such a visit to the prairie-land, the pleasure it would give us, and thousands such as we, is beyond all question. You have never visited Illinois, or at least this portion of it; and should you now yield to our request, we promise you such a reception as shall be worthy of the man on whom are now turned the fondest hopes of a great and suffering nation. Please inform us at the earliest convenience whether we may expect you.  Very respectfully, your obedient servants, A. G. Henry,  P. A. Saunders, 	A. Lincoln, C. Birchall, 	J. N. Francis, 	Robt. Irwin, J. M. Cabaniss, 	A. T. Bledsoe, 	J. M. Allen, Executive Committee , `` Clay Club .''

Tabulation of Votes in Sangamon County for State Representatives 1832-1836
[September 9, 1842]
Elections in Sangamon county Illinois, for State Representatives, in the years 1832-1834 & 1836--- 1832 E. D. Taylor--- 	Dem. 	1127 	Elected J. T. Stuart 	Whig. 	991 	Elected Achs. Morris. 	Dem. 	945 	Elected Peter Cartwright 	Dem. 	815 	}Elected A. G. Herndon 	Dem. 	806 Wm. Carpenter 	Dem. 	774 John Dawson 	Dem. 	717 A. Lincoln 	Whig. 	657 T. M. Neale 	Whig 	593 Richard Quinton 	Dem. 	485 Zach. Peter 	Whig 	216 Edw. Robinson 	Whig 	169 Wm Kirkpatrick 	Dem. 	44--- 1834 --- John Dawson--- 	Dem--- 	1390 	Elected--- A. Lincoln. 	Whig 	1376 	Elected--- Wm. Carpenter 	Dem. 	1170 	Elected--- J. T. Stuart 	Whig 	1164 	}Elected--- Richd. Quinton 	Dem. 	1038 Andw. McCormick 	Whig--- 	694 Wm. Alvey 	Whig. 	613 T. M. Neale 	Whig--- 	514 S. J. Campbell 	Dem 	192 James Shepherd 	Dem. 	154 James Baker 	Whig 	130 John Durley 	Whig 	92 Wm. Kendall 	Whig--- 	42. 1836 --- A. Lincoln 	Whig--- 	1716 	Elected W. F. Elkin 	Whig. 	1694 	Elected N W Edwards--- 	Whig--- 	1659 	Elected John Dawson 	Whig. 	1641 	Elected Dan Stone--- 	Whig. 	1438 	Elected R. L. Wilson 	Whig. 	1353 	Elected Andw. McCormick 	Whig. 	1306 	}Elected John Calhoun 	Dem. 	1278 J. M. Early 	Dem. 	1194 Richd. Quinton 	Dem. 	1137 Thos. Wynne. 	Dem. 	972 Aaron Vandaveer 	Dem. 	922 Uriah Mann 	Dem. 	913 Geo. Power 	Dem. 	905 James Baker--- 	Whig--- 	101 J. L. Thompson 	Dem--- 	38 T. Young 	Whig--- 	12---

To James Shields
Jas. Shields, Esq. Tremont, Sept. 17, 1842.
Your note of to-day was handed me by Gen. Whiteside.  In that note you say you have been informed, through the medium of the editor of the Journal,  that I am the author of certain articles in that paper which you deem personally abusive of you: and without stopping to enquire whether I really am the author, or to point out what is offensive in them, you demand an unqualified retraction of all that is offensive; and then proceed to hint at consequences. Now, sir, there is in this so much assumption of facts, and so much of menace as to consequences, that I cannot submit to answer that note any farther than I have, and to add, that the consequence to which I suppose you allude, would be matter of as great regret to me as it possibly could to you.  Respectfully, A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum of Duel Instructions to Elias H. Merryman
[September 19, 1842]
In case Whitesides  shall signify a wish to adjust this affair without further difficulty, let him know that if the present papers be withdrawn, & a note from Mr. Shields asking to know if I am the author of the articles of which he complains, and asking that I shall make him gentlemanly satisfaction, if I am the author, and this without menace, or dictation as to what that satisfaction shall be, a pledge is made, that the following answer shall be given--- ``I did write the `Lost Township' letter which appeared in the Journal of the 2nd. Inst. but had no participation, in any form, in any other article alluding to you. I wrote that, wholly for political effect. I had no intention of injuring your personal or private character or standing as a man or a gentleman; and I did not then think, and do not now think that that article, could produce or has produced that effect against you, and had I anticipated such an effect I would have forborne to write it. And I will add, that your conduct towards me, so far as I knew, had always been gentlemanly; and that I had no personal pique against you, and no cause for any.'' If this should be done, I leave it with you to arrange what shall & what shall not be published. If nothing like this is done---the preliminaries of the fight are to be--- 1st. Weapons---Cavalry broad swords of the largest size, precisely equal in all respects---and such as now used by the cavalry company at Jacksonville. 2nd. Position---A plank ten feet long, & from nine to twelve inches broad to be firmly fixed on edge, on the ground, as the line between us which neither is to pass his foot over upon forfeit of his life. Next a line drawn on the ground on either side of said plank & paralel with it, each at the distance of the whole length of the sword and three feet additional from the plank; and the passing of his own such line by either party during the fight shall be deemed a surrender of the contest. 3. Time---On thursday evening at five o'clock if you can get it so; but in no case to be at a greater distance of time than friday evening at five o'clock. 4th. Place---Within three miles of Alton on the opposite side of the river, the particular spot to be agreed on by you. Any preliminary details coming within the above rules, you are at liberty to make at your discretion; but you are in no case to swerve from these rules, or to pass beyond their limits.

Statements Concerning the Whiteside-Merryman Affair
October , 1842
Upon presenting this note  to Gen. Whiteside, and stating verbally that it was an agreement to meet him at the time he mentioned, at Louisiana, Missouri, he replied:--- ``Lincoln, I can not accept any thing from him now. I have business at St. Louis: and it is as near as Louisiana.'' A. LINCOLN. Dr. Merryman requests me, as he understands you are going away, to give you notice, that he will publish the correspondence which has passed between you and him, with such comments as he shall think proper. Upon making the above statement verbally to Gen. Whiteside, he replied:---``I am going away when it suits my convenience; but I expect Dr. Merryman, as an honorable man, to meet me at St. Louis. We then shall be untrammeled by the laws of this State.'' A. LINCOLN.

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, Oct. 5 1842-
You have heard of my duel with Shields, and I have now to inform you that the duelling business still rages in this city. Day-before-yesterday Shields challenged Butler, who accepted, and proposed figh[t]ing next morning at sun-rising in Bob. Allen's meadow, one hundred yards distance with rifles. To this, Whitesides, Shields' second, said ``No'' because of the law. Thus ended, duel No. 2. Yesterday, Whitesides chose to consider himself insulted by Dr. Merryman, and so, sent him a kind of quasi challenge inviting him to meet him at the planter's House in St. Louis on the next friday to settle their difficulty. Merryman made me his friend, and sent W. a note enquiring to know if he meant his note as a challenge, and if so, that he would, according to the law in such case made and provided, prescribe the terms of the meeting. W. Returned for answer, that if M. would meet him at the Planter's House as desired, he would challenge him. M. replied in a note, that he denied W's right to dictate time and place; but that he, M, would would [ sic ] waive the question of time , and meet him at Louisiana Missouri. Upon my presenting this note to W. and stating verbally, it's contents, he declined receiving it, saying he had business at St. Louis, and it was as near as Louisiana. Merryman then directed me to notify Whitesides, that he should publish the correspondence between them with such comments as he thought fit. This I did. Thus it stood at bed time last night. This morning Whitesides, by his friend Shields, is praying for a new---trial, on the ground that he was mistaken in Merrymans proposition to meet him at Louisiana Missouri thinking it was the State of Louisiana. This Merryman hoots at, and is preparing his publication---while the town is in a ferment and a street fight somewhat anticipated. But I began this letter not for what I have been writing; but to say something on that subject which you know to be of such infinite solicitude to me. The immense suffering you endured from the first days of September till middle of February you never tried to conceal from me, and I well understood. You have now been the husband of a lovely woman nearly eight months. That you are happier now than you were the day you married her I well know; for without, you would not be living. But I have your word for it too; and the returning elasticity of spirits which is manifested in your letters. But I want to ask a closer question---``Are you now, in feeling as well as judgement , glad you are married as you are?'' From any body but me, this would be an impudent question not to be tolerated; but I know you will pardon it in me. Please answer it quickly as I feel impatient to know.  I have sent my love to your Fanny so often that I fear she is getting tired of it; however I venture to tender it again. Yours forever LINCOLN

To James S. Irwin
Jas S. Irwin Esqr. Springfield, Nov. 2 1842.
Owing to my absence, yours of the 22nd. ult. was not received till this moment. Judge Logan & myself are willing to attend to any business in the Supreme Court you may send us. As to fees, it is impossible to establish a rule that will apply in all, or even a great many cases. We believe we are never accused of being very unreasonable in this particular; and we would always be easily satisfied, provided we could see the money---but whatever fees we earn at a distance, if not paid before , we have noticed we never hear of after the work is done. We therefore, are growing a little sensitive on that point. Yours &c. A. LINCOLN

Family Record in Abraham Lincoln's Bible
November 4, 1842---April 4, 1853
Abraham Lincoln and Mary Todd, married, November 4---1842  --- Robert Todd Lincoln, born August 1---1843--- Edward B. Lincoln, born March 10---1846--- William Wallace Lincoln born December 21---1850--- Thomas Lincoln, born April 4. 1853.  Edward B. Lincoln died February 1---1850 

To Samuel D. Marshall
Dear Sam. Springfield, Nov. 11th. 1842-
Yours of the 10th. Oct. enclosing five dollars was taken from the office in my absence by Judge Logan  who neglected to hand it to me till about a week ago, and just an hour before I took a wife. Your other of the 3rd. Inst. is also received. The Forbes & Hill case, of which you speak has not been brought up as yet. I have looked into the Dorman & Lane case,  till I believe I understand the facts of it; and I also believe we can reverse it. In the last I may be mistaken, but I think the case, at least worth the experiment; and if Dorman will risk the cost, I will do my best for the ``biggest kind of a fee'' as you say, if we succeed, and nothing if we fail. I have not had a chance to consult Logan since I read your letters, but if the case comes up, I can have the use of him if I need him. I would advise you to procure the Record and send it up immediately. Attend to the making out of the Record yourself, or most likely, the clerk will not get it all together right. Nothing new here, except my marrying,  which to me, is matter of profound wonder. Yours forever A. LINCOLN

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, Ills. Jany. 18- 1843-
It has been a long time since I wrote you last, but you have not been forgotten nevertheless. Hurst  called on me yesterday, and as he said by your direction paid me $72. State Bank paper, $42. Shawneetown paper, and $2.59 cents silver. What shall I do with it? The Nesbitts  have let the time of redemption run out on the land you bought on their execution, so that the land falls to you, and the cost is to be paid to the officer's somehow. Van Bergen  placed his debt on Walters  in our hands to collect and pay you. We foreclosed on Walter's house and lots and sold them & bought them in in [ sic ] your name. This sale, owing to the peculiarity of the case, was made without valuation or redemption, so that the property is now yours absolutely. But we suppose you would still prefer the money, and that Walters, (as he is reelected Public Printer) will wish to redeem it. We therefore suggest the propriety of your signing the blank document at the end of this sheet, authorizing Col: Elkin  to deed the property to Walters in case he shall redeem it. If he shall not so redeem it, there will be the cost to pay in that case too. It was sold for about $1200, the amount of Van's debt; but although you are the ostensible purchaser, we have a secret contract with Van that he is purch[as]er for so much of the purchase money as is over and above what will pay you. I have just called on judge Browne,  & find that he will pay nothing but Auditors warrants, which of course I can not receive. I wish you would direct me to bring a suit against him at once Your brother James sent us a note on Bell & Boice,  which you had assigned to your Brother William. Ask James to write me whether we shall sue Boice, now that Bell is dead. Mary is very well and continues her old sentiments of friendship for you. How the marriage life goes with us I will tell you when I see you here, which I hope will be very soon. Ever your friend A. LINCOLN Of course the order below is not to be used unless Walters pays the money. Whereas at a sale of Lots 14---15 & 16 in Block 7 in E. Ile's addition to the late town now city of Springfield Illinois, made by William F Elkin as commissioner under a Decree of the Sangamon circuit court, I became the purchaser of said lots, now therefore for value received of William Walters, I authorize and direct said Elkin to convey said lots by deed to said Walters, or to any other person that said Walters may direct. Witness my hand and seal this day of A.D. 1843 (SEAL)

To Alden Hull
Friend Hull: Springfield, Feby. 14- 1843.
Your county and ours are almost sure to be placed in the same congressional district. I would like to be it's Representative; still circumstances may happen to prevent my even being a candidate. If, however, there are any whigs in Tazewell who would as soon I should represent them as any other person, I would be glad they would not cast me aside until they see and hear further what turn things take. Do not suppose, Esqr. that in addressing this letter to you, I assume that you will be for me against all other whigs; I only mean, that I know you to be my personal friend, a good whig, and an honorable man, to whom I may, without fear, communicate a fact which I wish my particular friends (if I have any) to know. There is nothing new here now worth telling. Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN

To Richard S. Thomas
Springfield, Ills., Feb. 14, 1843.
Friend Richard: . . . Now if you should hear any one say that Lincoln don't want to go to Congress, I wish you as a personal friend of mine, would tell him you have reason to believe he is mistaken. The truth is, I would like to go very much. Still, circumstances may happen which may prevent my being a candidate. If there are any who be my friends in such an enterprise, what I now want is that they shall not throw me away just yet. Yours as ever, A. LINCOLN.

Resolutions at a Whig Meeting
March 1, 1843
Resolved , That a Tariff of duties on imported goods, producing sufficient Revenue, for the payment of the necessary expenditures of the National Government, and so adjusted as to protect American Industry, is indispensably necessary to the prosperity of the American people. Resolved , That we are opposed to Direct Taxation for the support of the National Government. Resolved , That a National Bank, properly restricted, is highly necessary and proper to the establishment and maintainance of a sound currency; and for the cheap and safe collection, keeping, and disbursing the public revenue. Resolved , That the distribution of the proceeds of the sales of Public Lands, upon the principles of Clay's bill,  accords with the best interests of the Nation, and particularly with those of the State of Illinois. Resolved , That we recommend to the whigs of each Congressional District of the State, to nominate and support, at the approaching election, a candidate of their own principles, regardless of the chances of success. Resolved , That we recommend to the whigs of all portions of this State to adopt, and rigidly adhere to, the Convention System of nominating candidates. Resolved , That we recommend to the whigs of each Congressional District to hold a District Convention on or before the first Monday of May next, to be composed of a number of delegates from each county equal to double the number of its Representatives in the General Assembly, provided each county shall have at least one delegate. Said delegates to be chosen by primary meetings of the whigs, at such times and places as they in their respective counties may see fit. Said District Conventions, each, to nominate one candidate for Congress, and one delegate to a National Convention, for the purpose of nominating candidates for President and Vice President of the United States. The seven delegates so nominated to a National Convention, to have power to add two delegates to their own number, and to fill all vacancies. Resolved , That A. T. Bledsoe,  S. T. Logan, and A. Lincoln, be appointed a committee to prepare an address to the People of the State. Resolved , That N. W. Edwards, A. G. Henry, James H. Matheny, John C. Doremus, and James C. Conkling,  be appointed a Whig Central State Committee, with authority to fill any vacancy that may occur in the committee.

To Richard S. Thomas
Friend Richard: Springfield, March 2. 1843-
I received yours of the 27th. ult., in due course, for which I thank you. The fact mentioned by you that an impression was being made that I did not wish to be a candidate was precisely the reason of my writing you before. The Bill forming the Districts is now a law, and our District is composed of Putnam, Marshall, Woodford, Tazewell, Logan, Mason, Menard, Cass, Scott, Morgan and Sangamon. Last night the Whigs of the State, now here, held a meeting and recommended that a convention be held in each District on or before the first Monday of May, to nominate candidates for congress. By this recommendation your county will have two delegates in our convention. Why might you not be one of those Delegates? You will see the full length proceedings of the meeting in the Journal . The meeting was large, and every resolution passed unanimously; and I do hope the principles & recommendations put forth by them may be responded to with the same unanimity by our friends every where. If they shall be so responded to, we shall yet, and at no very distant day, be of the majority in the State. Write me again, if it is not too troublesome. Yours as ever, A. LINCOLN---

Campaign Circular from Whig Committee
March 4, 1843
ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE OF ILLINOIS. FELLOW-CITIZENS: By a resolution of a meeting of such of the Whigs of the State, as are now at Springfield, we, the undersigned, were appointed to prepare an address to you.  The performance of that task we now undertake. Several resolutions were adopted by the meeting; and the chief object of this address is, to show briefly, the reasons for their adoption. The first of those resolutions declares a tariff of duties upon foreign importations, producing sufficient revenue for the support of the General Government, and so adjusted as to protect American industry, to be indispensably necessary to the prosperity of the American People; and the second declares Direct Taxation for a National Revenue to be improper. Those two resolutions are kindred in their nature, and therefore proper and convenient to be considered together. The question of protection is entirely too broad to be crowded into a few pages only, together with several other subjects. On that point, we therefore content ourselves with giving the following extracts from the writings of Mr. Jefferson, Gen. Jackson, and the speech of Mr. Calhoun: ``To be independent for the comforts of life, we must fabricate them ourselves. We must now place the manufacturer by the side of the agriculturalist. The grand inquiry now is, shall we make our own comforts, or go without them at the will of a foreign nation? He, therefore, who is now against domestic manufactures must be for reducing us either to dependence on that foreign nation, or to be clothed in skins and to live like wild beasts in dens and caverns. I am not one of those; experience has taught me that manufactures are now as necessary to our independence as to our comfort.''--- Letter of Mr. Jefferson to Benjamin Austin .  ``I ask, what is the real situation of the agriculturalist? Where has the American farmer a market for his surplus produce? Except for cotton, he has neither a foreign nor a home market. Does not this clearly prove, when there is no market at home or abroad, that there is too much labor employed in agriculture? Common sense at once points out the remedy. Take from agriculture 600,000 men, women and children, and you will at once give a market for more breadstuffs than all Europe now furnishes. In short, we have been too long subject to the policy of British merchants. It is time we should become a little more Americanized , and instead of feeding the paupers and laborers of England, feed our own; or else, in a short time, by continuing our present policy, we shall all be rendered paupers ourselves.''--- Gen. Jackson's letter to Dr. Coleman .  ``When our manufactures are grown to a certain perfection, as they soon will be, under the fostering care of Government, the farmer will find a ready market for his surplus produce, and, what is of equal consequence, a certain and cheap supply of all he wants; his prosperity will diffuse itself to every class of the community.''--- Speech of Hon. J. C. Calhoun on the tariff .  The question of Revenue we will now briefly consider. For several years past, the revenues of the Government have been unequal to its expenditures, and consequently, loan after loan, sometimes directly, and sometimes indirectly in form, have been resorted to. By this means a new National debt, has been created, and is still growing on us with a rapidity fearful to contemplate---a rapidity only reasonably to be expected in time of war. This state of things has been produced by a prevailing unwillingness, either to increase the tariff, or resort to direct taxation. But the one or the other must come. Coming expenditures must be met, and the present debt must be paid; and money cannot always be borrowed for these objects. The system of loans is but temporary in its nature, and must soon explode. It is a system, not only ruinous while it lasts, but one that must soon fail and leave us destitute. As an individual who undertakes to live by borrowing, soon finds his original means devoured by interest, and next no one left to borrow from---so must it be with a government. We repeat, then, that a tariff sufficient for revenue, or a direct tax, must soon be resorted to; and, indeed, we believe this alternative is now denied by no one. But which system shall be adopted? Some of our opponents, in theory, admit the propriety of a tariff sufficient for revenue; but even they, will not in practice vote for such a tariff; while others boldly advocate direct taxation. Inasmuch, therefore, as some of them boldly advocate direct taxation, and all the rest, or so nearly all, as to make exceptions needless, refuse to adopt the tariff---we think it is doing them no injustice to class them all as advocates of direct taxation. Indeed, we believe, they are only delaying an open avowal of the system, till they can assure themselves that the people will. Let us then briefly compare the two systems. The tariff is the cheaper system, because the duties, being collected in large parcels at a few commercial points, will require comparatively few officers in their collection; while by the direct tax system, the land must be literally covered with assessors and collectors, going forth like swarms of Egyptian locusts, devouring every blade of grass and other green thing. And again, by the tariff system, the whole revenue is paid by the consumers of foreign goods, and those chiefly, the luxuries, and not the necessaries of life. By this system, the man who contents himself to live upon the products of his own country, pays nothing at all. And surely, that country is extensive enough, and its products abundant and varied enough, to answer all the real wants of its people. In short, by this system, the burthen of revenue falls almost entirely on the wealthy and luxurious few, while the substantial and laboring many who live at home, and upon home products, go entirely free. By the direct tax system, none can escape. However strictly the citizen may exclude from his premises, all foreign luxuries---fine cloths, fine silks, rich wines, golden chains, and diamond rings; still, for the possession of his house, his barn, and his homespun, he is to be perpetually haunted and harassed by the tax-gatherer. With these views we leave it to be determined, whether we or our opponents are the more truly democratic on this subject. The third resolution declares the necessity and propriety of a National Bank. During the last fifty years so much has been said and written both as to the constitutionality and expediency of such an institution, that we could not hope to improve in the least on former discussions of the subject, were we to undertake it. We, therefore, upon the [question of?] constitutionality, content ourselves with remarking the facts, that the first National Bank was established chiefly by the same men who formed the constitution, at a time when that instrument was but two years old, receiving the sanction, as President, of the immortal Washington; that the second received the sanction, as President, of Mr. Madison, to whom common consent has awarded the proud title of ``Father of the Constitution''; and subsequently the sanction of the Supreme Court, the most enlightened judicial tribunal in the world. Upon the question of the expediency, we only ask you to examine the history of the times, during the existence of the two Banks, and compare those times with the miserable present. The fourth resolution declares the expediency of Mr. Clay's Land Bill.  Much incomprehensible jargon is often urged against the constitutionality of this measure. We forbear, in this place, attempting to answer to it, simply because, in our opinion, those who urge it, are, through party zeal, resolved not to see or acknowledge the truth. The question of expediency, at least so far as Illinois is concerned, seems to us the clearest imaginable. By the bill, we are to receive annually a large sum of money, no part of which we otherwise receive. The precise annual sum cannot be known in advance; it doubtless will vary in different years; still it is something to know, that in last year,---a year of almost unparalleled pecuniary pressure---it amounted to more than forty thousand dollars. This annual income, in the midst of our almost insupportable difficulties, in the days of our severest necessity, our political opponents are furiously resolving to take and keep from us. And for what? Many silly reasons are given, as is usual in cases when a single good one is not to be found. One is, that by giving us the proceeds of the public lands, we impoverish the National Treasury, and thereby render necessary an increase of the tariff. This may be true, but if so, the amount of it only is, that those whose pride, whose abundance of means, prompt them to spurn the manufactures of our own country, and to strut in British cloaks, and coats, and pantaloons, may have to pay a few cents more on the yard for the cloth that makes them. A terrible evil, truly, to the Illinois farmer, who never wore, nor never expects to wear, a single yard of British goods in his whole life. Another of their reasons is, that by the passage and continuance, of Mr. Clay's bill, we prevent the passage of a bill which would give us more. This if it were sound, in itself, is waging destructive war with the former position; for if Mr. Clay's bill impoverishes the Treasury too much, what shall be said of one that impoverishes it still more? But it is not sound in itself. It is not true that Mr. Clay's bill prevents the passage of one more favorable to us of the new States. Considering the strength and opposite interest of the old States; the wonder is, that they ever permitted one to pass so favorable as Mr. Clay's. The last twenty odd years' efforts to reduce the price of the lands, and to pass graduation bills, and cession Bills, prove the assertion to be true; and even if there were no experience in support of it, the reason itself is plain. The States in which none, or few, of the public lands lie, and those consequently interested against parting with them, except for the best price, are the majority; and a moment's reflection will show, that they must ever continue the majority---because by the time one of the original new States (Ohio for example) becomes populous, and gets weight in Congress, the public lands in her limits are [so] nearly sold out, that in every point material to this question, she becomes an old State. She does not wish the price reduced, because there is none left for her citizens to buy; she does not wish them ceded to the States in which they lie, because they no longer lie in her limits, and she will get nothing by the cession. In the nature of things, the States interested in the reduction of price, in graduation, in cession, and in all similar projects, never can be the majority. Nor is there reason to hope that any of them can ever succeed as a democratic party measure, because we have heretofore seen that party in full power, year after year, with many of their leaders making loud professions in favor of these projects, and yet doing nothing. What reason then is there, to believe they will hereafter do better? In every light in which we can view this question, it amounts simply to this. Shall we accept our share of the proceeds, under Mr. Clay's bill; or shall we rather reject that, and get nothing? The fifth resolution recommends that a Whig candidate for Congress be run in every District, regardless of the chances of success. We are aware that it is sometimes a temporary gratification, when a friend cannot succeed, to be able to choose between opponents; but we believe that that gratification is the seed time which never fails to be followed by a most abundant harvest of bitterness. By this policy we entangle ourselves. By voting for our opponents, such of us as do it, in some measure estop ourselves to complain of their acts, however glaringly wrong we may believe them to be. By this policy, no one portion of our friends, can ever be certain as to what course another portion may adopt; and by this want of mutual and perfect understanding, our political identity is partially frittered away and lost. And again, those who are thus elected by our aid, ever become our bitterest prosecutors [persecutors]. Take a few prominent examples: In 1830 Reynolds  was so elected Governor; in 1835, we exerted our whole strength to elect Judge Young  to the United States Senate, which effort, though failing, gave him the prominence that subsequently elected him; in 1836 Gen. Ewing  was so elected to the United States Senate, and yet let us ask what three men have been more perseveringly vindictive in their assaults upon all our men and measures than they. During the last summer the whole State was covered with pamphlet editions of misrepresentations against us, methodized into chapters and verses, written by two of these same men, Reynolds and Young; in which they did not stop at charging us with error merely, but roundly denounced us as the designing enemies of human liberty itself. If it be the will of Heaven that such men shall politically live, be it so, but never, never again permit them to draw a particle of their sustenance from us. The sixth resolution recommends the adoption of the convention system for the nomination of candidates.  This we believe to be of the very first importance. Whether the system is right in itself, we do not stop to enquire; contenting ourselves with trying to show, that while our opponents use it, it is madness in us not to defend ourselves with it. Experience has shown that we cannot successfully defend ourselves without it. For examples, look at the election last year. Our candidate for Governor, with the approbation of a large portion of the party, took the field without a nomination, and in open opposition to the system. Wherever in the counties the whigs had held Conventions and nominated candidates for the Legislature, the aspirants, who were not nominated, were induced to rebel against the nominations, and to become candidates, as is said, ``on their own hook.'' And go where you would into a large whig county, you were sure to find the whigs, not contending shoulder to shoulder against the common enemy, but divided into factions, and fighting furiously with one another. The election came, [and] what was the result? The Governor beaten, the whig vote being decreased many thousands since 1840, although the democratic vote had not increased any. Beaten almost every where for members of the Legislature. Tazewell, with her four hundred whig majority, sending a delegation half democratic. Vermillion, with her five hundred, doing the same. Coles, with her four hundred, sending two out of three; Morgan, with her two hundred and fifty, sending her three out of four; and this, to say nothing of the numerous other less glaring examples; the whole winding up with the aggregate number of twenty-seven democratic representatives sent from whig counties. As to the Senators, too, the result was of the same character. And it is most worthy to be remembered, that of all the whigs in the State, who ran against the regular nominees, a single one only was elected. Although they succeeded in defeating the nominees almost by scores, they too, were defeated, and the spoils chucklingly borne off by the common enemy. We do not mention the fact of many of the whigs opposing the Convention System heretofore, for the purpose of censuring them. Far from it. We expressly protest against such a conclusion. We know they were generally, perhaps universally, as good and true whigs, as we ourselves claim to be. We mention it merely to draw attention to the disastrous result it produced, as an example forever hereafter to be avoided. That ``union is strength'' is a truth that has been known, illustrated and declared, in various ways and forms in all ages of the world. That great fabulist and philosopher, Aesop, illustrated it by his fable of the bundle of sticks; and he whose wisdom surpasses that of all philosophers, has declared that ``a house divided against itself cannot stand.'' It is to induce our friends to act upon this important, and universally acknowledged truth, that we urge the adoption of the Convention System. Reflection will prove, that there is no other way of practically applying it. In its application, we know there will be incidents temprorarily painful; but, after all, we believe those incidents will be fewer and less intense, with, than without, the system. If two friends aspire to the same office, it is certain both cannot succeed. Would it not, then, be much less painful to have the question decided by mutual friends some time before, than to snarl and quarrel till the day of election, and then both be beaten by the common enemy? Before leaving this subject, we think proper to remark that we do not understand the resolution as intended to recommend the application of the Convention System to the nomination of candidates for the small offices no way connected with politics; though we must say, we do not perceive that such an application of it would be wrong. The seventh resolution recommends the holding of District Conventions in May next, for the purpose of nominating candidates for Congress. The propriety of this, rests upon the same reasons with that of the sixth, and therefore needs no further discussion. The eighth and ninth also, relate merely to the practical application of the foregoing, and therefore need no discussion. Before closing, permit us to add a few reflections on [the present condition and future prospects of] the whig party. In almost all the States we have fallen into the minority, and despondency seems to prevail universally among us. Is there just cause for this? In 1840 we carried the nation by more than a hundred and forty thousand majority. Our opponents charged that we did it by fraudulent voting; but whatever they may have believed, we knew the charge to be untrue. Where now is that mighty host? Have they gone over to the enemy? Let the results of the late elections answer. Every State which has fallen off from the whig cause since 1840 has done so, not by giving more democratic votes than they did then, but by giving fewer Whig. Bouck,  who was elected democratic Governor of New York last fall by more than 15,000 majority, had not then as many votes as he had in 1840, when he was beaten by seven or eight thousand. And so has it been in all the other States which have fallen away from our cause. From this, it is evident, that tens of thousands, in the late elections, have not voted at all. Who and what are they? is an important question, as respects the future. They can come forward and give us the victory again. That all, or nearly all of them, are whigs, is most apparent. Our opponents, stung to madness by the defeat of 1840, have ever since rallied with more than their usual unanimity. It has not been they that have been staid from the polls. These facts show what the result must be, once the people again rally in their entire strength. Proclaim these facts and predict this result, and, although unthinking opponents may smile at us, the sagacious ones will ``believe and tremble.'' And why shall the whigs not all rally again? Are their principles less dear now than in 1840? Have any of their doctrines, since then, been discovered to be untrue? It is true, the victory of 1840 did not produce the happy results anticipated, but it is equally true, as we believe, that the unfortunate death of Gen. Harrison  was the cause of the failure. It was not the election of Gen. Harrison that was expected to produce happy effects, but the measures to be adopted by his administration. By means of his death, and the unexpected course of his successor, those measures were never adopted. How could the fruits follow? The consequences we always predicted, would follow the failure of those measures, have followed, and are now upon us in all their horrors. By the course of Mr. Tyler the policy of our opponents has continued in operation; still leaving them with the advantage of charging all its evils upon us as the results of a whig administration. Let none be deceived by this somewhat plausible, tho' entirely false charge. If they ask us for the sufficient and sound currency we promised, let them be answered, that we only promised it, through the medium of a National Bank, which, they aided by Mr. Tyler, prevented our establishing. And, let them be reminded too, that their own policy in relation to the currency, has all the time been, and still is, in full operation. Let us then again come forth in our might, and by a second victory, accomplish that, which death only prevented in the first. We can do it. When did the whigs ever fail if they were fully aroused and united? Even in single States and Districts, under such circumstances, defeat seldom overtakes them. Call to mind the contested elections within the last few years, and particularly those of Moore and Letcher from Kentucky;  Newland [ sic ] and Graham from North Carolina,  and the famous New Jersey case.  In all those districts Loco Focoism had stalked omnipotent before; but when the whole people were aroused by its enormities, on those occasions, they put it down never to rise again. We declare it to be our solemn conviction, that the whigs are always a majority of this Nation; and that to make them always successful, needs but to get them all to the polls, and [to] vote unitedly. This is the great desideratum. Let us make every effort to attain it. At every election, let every whig act as though he knew the result to depend upon his action. In the great contest of 1840, some more than twenty-one hundred thousand votes were cast---and so surely as there shall be that many, with the ordinary increase added, cast in 1844, that surely will a whig be elected President of the United States. A. LINCOLN. March, 4, 1843 S. T. LOGAN. A. T. BLEDSOE.

To John Bennett
Friend Bennett: Springfield March 7- 1843-
Your letter of this day was handed me by Mr. Miles.  It is too late now to effect the object you desire. On yesterday morning the most of the whig members from this District got together and agreed to hold the convention at Tremont in Tazewell county. I am sorry to hear that any of the whigs of your county, or, indeed of any county, should longer be against conventions. On last Wednesday evening a meeting of all the whigs then here from all parts of the State was held, and the question of the propriety of conventions was brought up and fully discussed, and at the end of the discussion, a resolution reccommending the system of conventions to all the whigs of the State, was unanamously adopted.  Other Resolutions also were passed, all of which will appear in the next Journal. The meeting also appointed a committee to draft an address to the People of the State which address will also appear in the next Journal.  In it, you will find a brief argument in favour of conventions; and although I wrote it myself, I will say to you, that it is conclusive upon this point---that it, can not be reasonably answered. The right way for you to do, is to hold your meeting and appoint delegates any how; and if there be any who will not take part, let it be so. The matter will work so well this time that even they who now oppose will come in next time. The convention is to be held at Tremont on the 5th. April, and according to the rule we have adopted your county is to have two delegates---being double the number of your representatives.  If there be any good whig who is disposed still to stick out against conventions, get him at least to read the argument in their favour in the address. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, March 24. 1843-
Hurst tells me that Lockridge has redeemed the land in your case, & paid him the money; and that he has written you about it.  I now have the pleasure of informing you that Walters has paid me $703.25 (in gold) for you.  There is something still due you from him,---I think near a hundred dollars, for which I promised him a little additional time. The gold, (except the toll) we hold subject to your order. We had a meeting of the whigs of the county here on last monday to appoint delegates to a district convention, and Baker beat me  & got the delegation instructed to go for him. The meeting, in spite of my attempt to decline it, appointed me one of the delegates;  so that in getting Baker the nomination, I shall be ``fixed'' a good deal like a fellow who is made groomsman to the man what has cut him out, and is marrying his own dear ``gal.'' About the prospect of your having a namesake at our house cant say, exactly yet. [Signature removed.]

To Martin S. Morris
Friend Morris: Springfield March 26th. 1843
Your letter of the 23rd. was received on yesterday morning, and for which (instead of an excuse which you thought proper to ask) I tender you my sincere thanks. It is truly gratifying to me to learn that while the people of Sangamon have cast me off, my old friends of Menard who have known me longest and best of any, still retain there confidence in me. It would astonish if not amuse, the older citizens of your County who twelve years ago knew me a strange[r], friendless, uneducated, penniless boy, working on a flat boat---at ten dollars per month to learn that I have been put down here as the candidate of pride, wealth, and arristocratic family distinction. Yet so chiefly it was. There was too the strangest combination of church influence against me. Baker is a Campbellite, and therefore as I supose, with few acceptions got all that church. My wife has some relatives in the Presbyterian and some in the Episcopal Churches, and therefore, whereever it would tell, I was set down as either the one or the other, whilst it was every where contended that no ch[r]istian ought to go for me, because I belonged to no church, was suspected of being a deist, and had talked about fighting a duel. With all these things Baker, of course had nothing to do. Nor do I complain of them. As to his own church going for him, I think that was right enough, and as to the influences I have spoken of in the other, though they were very strong, it would be grossly untrue and unjust to charge that they acted upon them in a body or even very nearly so. I only mean that those influences levied a tax of a considerable per cent. upon my strength throughout the religious comunity. But enough of this. You say that in choosing a candidate for Congress you have an equal right with Sangamon, and in this you are undoubtedly correct. In agreeing to withdraw if the whigs of Sangamon should go against me I did not mean that they alone were worth consulting; but that if she with her heavy delegation should be against me, it would be impossible for me to succeed---and therefore I had as well decline. And in relation to Menard having rights, permit me to fully recognize them---and to express the opinion that if she and Mason act circumspectly they will in the convention be able so far to enforce there rights as to decide absolutely which one of the candidates shall be successful. Let me show you the reason of this. Hardin or some other Morgan Candidate will get Morgan, Scott, & Cass---14 Baker has Sangamon already, and he or he and some [one] else not the Morgan man will get Putnam, Marshall, Woodford, Taz[e]well & Logan---which with Sangamon make 16. Then you & Mason having three, can give the victory to either man. You say you shall instruct your delegates to go for me unless I object. I certainly shall not object. That would be too plesant a compliment for me to tread in the dust. And besides if any thing should hapen (which however is not probable) by which Baker should be thrown out of the fight, I would be at liberty to accept the nomination if I could get it. I do however feell myself bound not to hinder him in any way from getting the nomination.  I should dispise myself were I to attempt it. I think it would be proper for your meeting to appoint three delegates, and instruct them to go for some one as first choice, some one else as second choice, and perhaps some one as third ---and if in those instructions I were named as the first choice, it would gratify me very much. If you wish to hold the ballance of power, it is important for you to attend too, and secure the vote of Mason also. You should be sure to have men appointed delegates, that you know you can safely confide in. If yourself & James Short  were appointed for your County all would be safe. But whether Jims woman afair a year ago might not be in the way of his appointment is a question. I dont know whether you know it, but I know him to be as honorable a man as there is in the world. You have my permission and even request to show this letter to Short; but to no one else unless it be a very particular friend who you know will not speak of it. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN P.S. Will you write me again? A. L---

To Martin S. Morris
Friend Morris: April 14th 1843.
I have heard it insinuated that Baker has been attempting to get you or Miles  or both of you to violate the instructions of the meeting that appointed you, and to go for him. I have insisted, and still insist, that this can not be true. Surely Baker would not do the like. As well might Hardin ask me to vote for him, in the convention. Again, it is said there will be an attempt to get up instructions in your county, requiring you to go for Baker. This is all wrong again. Upon the same rule, why might not I fly from the decision against me in Sangamon and get up instructions to their delegation to go for me. There are at least twelve hundred whigs in the county, that took no part. And yet I would as soon put my head in the fire as to attempt it. I should feel myself strongly dishonored by it. Besides, if any one should get the nomination by such extraordinary means, all harmony in the district would inevitably be lost. Honest whigs (and very nearly all of them are honest) will not quietly abide such enormities. I repeat, such an attempt on Baker's part can not be true. Write, me at Springfield, how this matter is. Dont show or speak of this letter. As ever yours A. LINCOLN

Resolution Adopted at Whig Convention at Pekin, Illinois
May 1, 1843
Resolved , That this convention, as individuals, recommend E. D. Baker as a suitable person to be voted for by the whigs of this district, for Representative to Congress, at the election in 1844, subject to the decision of a District Convention, should the whigs of the district think proper to hold one.

Proposal of a Barbecue
May 11, 1843
A Proposition . We have a proposition to make to our friends of Morgan, that, in case the locos run a candidate for Congress in that county at the August election, the majority of votes in SANGAMON COUNTY for HARDIN shall DOUBLE the number of his majority in MORGAN COUNTY. The losing County shall give a free BARBACUE to the whigs of the other county---the said Barbacue to be provided at some place most convenient for the accommodation of the whigs of the two Counties. Whigs of Morgan, will you go it?

To John J. Hardin
Friend Hardin: Springfield, May 11th, 1843.
Butler  informs me that he received a letter from you, in which you expressed some doubt whether the whigs of Sangamon will support you cordially. You may, at once, dismiss all fears on that subject. We have already resolved to make a particular effort to give you the very largest majority possible in our county. From this, no whig of the county dissents. We have many objects for doing it. We make it a matter of honor and pride to do it; we do it, because we love the whig cause; we do it, because we like you personally; and last, we wish to convince you, that we do not bear that hatred to Morgan county, that you people have so long seemed to imagine. You will see by the journal of this week, that we propose, upon pain of losing a Barbecue, to give you twice as great a majority in this county as you shall receive in your own. I got up the proposal.  Who of the five appointed, is to write the District address? I did the labor of writing one address this year; and got thunder for my reward.  Nothing new here. Yours as ever. A. LINCOLN. P.S.---I wish you would measure one of the largest of those swords, we took to Alton, and write me the length of it, from tip of the point to tip of the hilt, in feet and inches, I have a dispute about the length.  A. L.

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, May 18th. 1843-
Yours of the 9th. Inst. is duly received, which I do not meet as a ``bore,'' but as a most welcome visiter. I will answer the business part of it first. The note you enclosed on Cannan & Harlan, I have placed in Moffett's  hands according to your directions. Harvey  is the constable to have it. I have called three times to get the note. you mention, on B. C. Webster & Co; but did not find Hurst.  I will yet get it, and do with it, as you bid. At the april court at Tazewell, I saw Hall; and he then gave me an order on Jewett to draw of him, all rent which may fall due, after the 12th. day of Jany. last, till your debt shall be paid.  The rent is for the house Ransom did live in just above the Globe;  and is $222 per year payable quarterly, so that one quarter fell due the 12th. April. I presented the order to Jewett, since the 12th. and he said it was right, and he would accept, it, which, however, was not done in writing for want of pen & ink at the time & place. He acknowledged that the quarter's rent was due, and said he would pay it in a short time but could not at the moment. He also said that he thought, by some former arrangement, a portion of that quarter would have to be paid to the Irwins.  Thus stands the Hall matter. I think we will get the money on it, in the course of this year. You ask for the amount of interest on your Van Bergen note of $572.32,  and also upon the judgement against Van assigned by Baker. The note drew 12 per cent from date, and bore date Oct. 1st. 1841. I suppose the 12 per cent ceased, at the time we bought in Walters' house which was on the 23rd. Decr. 1842. If I count right, the interest up to that time, was $78.69 cents, which added to the principal makes $651.01. On this aggregate sum you are entitled to interest at 6 per cent only, from the said 23rd. Decr. 1842 until paid. What that will amount to, you can calculate for yourself. The judgement assigned by Baker to you for $219.80, was so assigned on the 2nd. of April 1841, and of course draws 6 per cent from that time until paid. This too you can calculate for yourself. About the 25th. of March 1843 (the precise date I dont now remember) Walters paid $703.25. This, of course must be remembered in counting interest. According to my count, there was due you of principal & interest on both claims on the 25th. of March 1843---$906.70. Walters then paid $703.25---which leaves still due you, $203.45, drawing 6 per cent from that date. Walters is promising to pay the ballance every day, but still has not done it. I think he will do it soon. Allen has gone to nothing, as Butler tells you.  There are 200 acres of the tract I took the deed of trust on. The improvements I should suppose you remember as well as I. It is the stage stand on the Shelbyville road, where you always said I would'nt pay Baker's  tavern bill. It seems to me it must be worth much more than the debt; but whether any body will redeem it in these hard times, I can not say. In relation to our congress matter here, you were right in supposing I would support the nominee. Neither Baker or I, however is the man; but Hardin . So far as I can judge from present appearances, we shall have no split or trouble about the matter; all will be harmony. In relation to the ``coming events''  about which Butler wrote you, I had not heard one word before I got your letter; but I have so much confidence in the judgement of a Butler on such a subject, that I incline to think there may be some reality in it. What day does Butler appoint? By the way, how do ``events'' of the same sort come on in your family? Are you possessing houses and lands, and oxen and asses, and men-servants and maid-servants, and begetting sons and daughters? We are not keeping house; but boarding at the Globe tavern, which is very well kept now by a widow lady of the name of Beck.  Our room (the same Dr. Wallace  ocupied there) and boarding only costs four dollars a week. Ann Todd  was married something more than a year since to a fellow by the name of Campbell, and who Mary says, is pretty much of a ``dunce'' though he has a little money & property. They live in Boonville, Mo; and have not been heard from lately enough, to enable me to say any thing about her health. I reckon it will scarcely be in our power to visit Kentucky this year. Besides poverty, and the necessity of attending to business, those ``coming events'' I suspect would be some what in the way. I most heartily wish you and your Fanny would not fail to come. Just let us know the time a week in advance, and we will have a room provided for you at our house, and all be merry together for awhile. Be sure to give my respects to your mother and family. Assure her, that if I ever come near her I will not fail to call and see her. Mary joins in sending love to your Fanny and you. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN P.S. Since I wrote the above I saw Hurst and discover that the note on B. C. Webster & Co does not fall due till the 9th. June. Hurst says it will be paid when due.

Resolutions Adopted by a Whig Meeting at the Capitol
June 10, 1843
Resolved , That we recommend to the Whigs of all the counties of this State, to hold meetings, and appoint delegates to meet in Convention on the second Monday of December next, in Springfield, and select nine persons as a Whig electoral ticket to be voted for by all the Whigs of the State at the Presidential election in 1844. Resolved , That all the Whig papers of this State be requested to publish the above resolution. Resolved , That we invite our democratic brethren to select two or three members of their party to meet a like number of ours to discuss the question of difference between the two political parties of the Nation, during all the evenings of next week; each Speaker to occupy one evening, the parties to take evening and evening about, and the speaker whose lot it shall be to open the debate, to have the privilege of making the closing speech on his own side of the question. Resolved , That the President of the Clay Club, be directed to present a copy of the above resolution to the President of the Democratic Association.

Arbitration Award to Samuel Wyckoff
July 3, 1843
Whereas we the undersigned, Samuel Wycoff, and Dennis Forest, the former being owner of the North West quarter of Section Eight, and the latter being owner of the South West quarter of Section Five, both tracts of Township Fourteen North of Range Six West, in Sangamon county, have a dispute concerning a small strip of land, each claiming it, as being part of his tract aforesaid; therefore we submit said dispute to the arbitrament of Abraham Lincoln, who is to hear the evidence adduced by both parties, and thereupon, decide which is the owner of the disputed land, and what line is hereafter to be the dividing line between us, and we hereby mutually bind ourselves in the penal sum of five hundred dollars, as liquidated damages, to abide by the decision he shall make, and each to give and allow the other peacable possession and enjoyment of his own side of the line so to be designated. Witness our hands and seals this 19th. day of June A.D. 1843. SAMUEL WYCKOFF DENNIS FORREST In pursuance of the above agreement, having fully heard the evidence, I decide that the land in dispute between said Wycoff and Forrest, belongs to said Wycoff, and that the old United States Surveyor's line, beginning at the West end thereof, and running thence Easterly as marked through the timber by said U.S. Surveyor, so far as the timber extends, and continuing the same course as so marked, the proper distance to reach the East side of the lands of said Wycoff and Forrest above described, shall hereafter be the dividing line between the said lands of the parties. July 3rd. 1843--- A. LINCOLN

Arbitration Award to the State of Illinois Against Anson G. Henry
July 14, 1843
State of Illinois vs A. G. Henry} We the Undersigned Arbitrators having carefully examined the accounts in refference to the matters within Submitted between the State of Illinois and A. G. Henry late Treasurer of the Board of State house commissioners do find and award in favour of the State of Illinois against the Said Henry the Sum of Two hundred and Seventy One Dollars Witness Our hands & Seals at Springfield this 14th day of July A D 1843 STEPHEN J. IANKIEWICZ  (SEAL) A. LINCOLN (SEAL) N. H. PURPLE (SEAL) 12 days Each Services for Arbitrators

Speech at Hillsboro, Illinois, in Reply to Orlando B. Ficklin
July 15, 1843
. . . . It was a little amusing to see how cautiously, this deputy and ``spokesman'' of the whig candidate in this district, came into the doctrine of the assumption of the State debts; endeavoring first to show that all the whigs were not for it; that it was not a question at issue; that he never had heard a speech on it before? [ sic ] and finally, that it was not a bad thing at any rate, and the people had better go for it. It is impossible to follow through his answer---but all were amused at the speech.

To Robert S. Blackwell
Dear Bob: Springfield. July 24th. 1843
Yours of the 18th. inclosing your license is received. I have had it perfected, and herewith return it to you. Nothing new here. God bless you. A. LINCOLN

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, July 26th. 1843.
Yours of the 17th. Inst. is received. Your former letter of the 9th. of June was also received. The note on Butler,  I did not wish to collect, for reasons well understood by you; and I therefore handed it to Hurst.  Butler has not been at home since it was received. He is, I suppose, this moment in New York city. The B. C. Webster & Co money, you have got, as I see by a letter of yours to Hurst. We received the ballance of the Walters  money three or four days ago. We received an overplus for Van.  at the same time, and we take out of the gross sum for you, what, according to our calculation, is your due. That we make to be $212.95[.] We retain the $12.95, as you see, and send you enclosed two one hundred dollar Missouri bills. You often direct us & Hurst to deposite for you in St. Louis; but this is more difficult than it would be to deposite for you at Knob-view; because, every other thing being equal, we do not know who to deposite with in St. Louis whereas we do at Knob-view. We therefore enclose the present remittance to you direct. I was talking with Allen  a few days ago, and he said he would like still to try to sell the farm for something more than your debt; but that he would deed it to you outright at any time, you desired it, provided you would take it, and discharge his debt. You know that under the deed of trust you may sell it for what it will bring, and hold him bound for the ballance, provided it does not sell for enough to pay the whole debt. I told him I would write you. We shall look with impatience for your visit this fall. Your Fanny can not be more anxious to see my Molly  than the latter is to see her; nor as much so as I am. Dont fail to come. We are but two, as yet. Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN P.S. Since I wrote the above, I have seen John Irwin, who starts to the East within a week from now, and by whom I have concluded to send the money in preference to enclosing it. He will leave it with your brother James in the city. A. L.

To a Gentleman in Tremont
July 31, 1843
Dear Sir---Your letter of the 27th inst. is received. I have consulted with Judge LOGAN on the question whether the 20 acres deeded by Harris will revert in case the county seat is removed, and after a good deal of reflection he thinks it a doubtful question. He says that where land is conveyed for the purpose of erecting public buildings on it, if those buildings are removed from it or abandoned as public buildings, the land reverts---but if not conveyed for that purpose, it will not revert by such removal or abandonment. Now in this case the deed does not show the land to have been conveyed for the purpose of erecting public buildings on it, while the law to which the deed refers provides for receiving the donation for the express purpose of erecting public buildings on it ,---so that if the object of the conveyance is to be collected from the deed, it will not revert---while, if it be collected from the law, it will revert. My own impression is , that the object of the conveyance is properly collected from a consideration of the deed and the law both together, and consequently that the land will revert, in case the county seat shall be removed . Yours, &c. A. LINCOLN.

Speech at Whig Barbecue at Jacksonville, Illinois
October 6, 1843
. . . . After Mr. Baker sat down, Mr. Lincoln was again called upon.  He took up the three prominent principles of the Whig Party---The Tariff, a sound and uniform National Currency and the Distribution of the proceeds of the Public Lands. All these he illustrated so plainly and so forcibly, as to show that he not only understood these principles thoroughly himself and their beneficial bearing on the American people, but that he also possessed a most happy faculty of vindicating them and of urging their adoption before an audience in such a manner as to convince all present of their necessity. 

To John McNamar
Friend McNamar: November [9?], 1843
You see the object of the above letter. As it speaks of the Tax of 1842. I had supposed the land was already sold, but, so far as the Returns in the Auditors Office shows, it has not. It may be that James meant the year 1843. I wish you would examine; and if the taxes have been paid up to this year, apply the enclosed money, or enough of it, to the payment of the tax of this year & send me the receipt by mail. Write the condition in which it stands at any rate. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

Pay Warrant for Alfred Kitchell
[October 11, 1843]
$75.00 --- 100 No. 9229 Received of the Auditor of WARRANT on the Treasurer of the State of Illinois for Seventy five dollars and --- cents, in full for the salary of A. Kitchell as State's Atty. of 4th. Judcl. Cirt. for yr. ending 30th Sept 1843. Springfield, A. LINCOLN Oct 11th 1843.

To Henry E. Dummer
Friend Dummer: Springfield, Jany. 2. 1844
In reply to yours of the 14th. ult. I say that if you can get a clear title to the 40 acres of land, together with costs, and a reasonable fee to yourself, I reckon you had better do it. Have the deed made to me. Yours as ever--- A. LINCOLN

Sale Contract by Charles Dresser and Abraham Lincoln
January 16, 1844
This memorandum witnesseth that Charles Dresser and Abraham Lincoln of Springfield Illinois, have contracted with each other as follows: The said Dresser is to convey to, or procure to be conveyed to, said Lincoln, by a clear title in fee simple, the entire premises (ground and improvements) in Springfield, on which said Dresser now resides, and give him possession of said premises, on or before the first day of April next---for which said Lincoln, at or before the same day, is to pay to said Dresser twelve hundred dollars, or what said Dresser shall then at his own option, accept as equivalent thereto; and also to procure to be conveyed to said Dresser, by a clear title in fee simple, the entire premises (ground and building) in Springfield, on the block immediately West of the Public square, the building on which is now occupied by H. A. Hough  as a shop, being the same premises, some time since conveyed by N. W. Edwards & wife to said Lincoln & Stephen T. Logan. Said Dresser takes upon himself to arrange with said Hough for the possession of said shop and premises. Jany. 16th. 1844 CHARLES DRESSER (signed duplicates.) A. LINCOLN Received  of A Lincoln on the within seven hundred and fifty dollars, on which he is to be allowed interest at the rate of twelve per cent per annum, until the within contract is complied with, or performance offered by said Dresser; and in case said Dresser, shall fail to comply with the within, we hereby bind ourselves to refund said seven hundred and fifty dollars to said Lincoln with interest at the rate of twelve per cent per annum from date. February 5th. 1844--- CHARLES DRESSER S. M. TINSLEY 

To Richard S. Thomas
Friend Richard: Springfield, Feby. 14th. 1844-
I am sorry to have to say I can find but one copy of President's Messages in town; and that one, belongs to the State Library, and, of course, can not be had. If alive and well, I am sure to be with you on the 22nd. I will meet the trio of mighty adversaries  you mention, in the best manner I can, No news here. Yours forever, R S. Thomas A. LINCOLN Virginia, Ills

To Simeon Ryder
Mr. Simeon Ryder: Springfield, Feby. 16th. 1844
Yours of the 14th. Inst. is received. The decree taken against Stringer at the last term of our court was not a final , but only an interlocutory decree.  The substance of it is, that Stringer pay to you on or before the first day of the next term, your debt & interest, and that Stringer should have ten days to file an answer, to enable him to contest the claim of Mitchells heirs, and the cause continued. Stringer's ten days have long since expired long ago, and he has filed no answer. At next court, I suppose a decree will [be] rendered, ordering the sale of the property to pay your debt, subject to the claim of Mitchell's heirs.  No Injunction has been obtained in the case. Yours &c. A. LINCOLN

Speeches in Virginia, Illinois
February 22, 1844
The Cass County Clay Club met at Virginia on the 22d. T. M. Kilpatrich  , Esq. addressed the meeting. Subsequently John Pierson,  Esq. appeared, and asked the privilege of setting forth the beauties of Locoism in a speech; which was acceded to.---Mr. Lincoln replied to him, and if any thing was left of Pierson's statements or arguments unanswered or unrefuted, our informant, after the most minute examination, was not able to make the discovery. He [Judge John Pearson] was followed by A. LINCOLN, Esq. in an able and eloquent speech, characterised by his well known ability. He made a clean shucking of the Judge, pointing out the fallacy of his arguments and disproving most of his statements. Mr. L. made a most able and conclusive argument on the Bank question, proving that it was no new fangled scheme, but one advocated and carried out by the fathers of the Republican school. His speech was received by repeated and rapturous applause. Mr. Lincoln commenced and tried to show that because Washington and Madison signed the U.S. Bank Bill, therefore it was constitutional. He labored hard to prove that Washington never done a wrong thing in his life; that Clay was honest in changing his party and his bank notions; he launched into the State Bank system, and said that the democrats chartered our State Bank, and all the State Banks were chartered by the democrats; that the majority of the directors (of democrats) had authorized the suspension in 1837, and intimated that the democrats had been for it, (the State Bank) ever since, and told his old calf story and made up his hour. Judge Pearson claimed his right of reply. . . . In the evening, I am told, the whigs had a meeting of the Clay Club, and the speakers let themselves out, for they were under no restraint. Lincoln talked of the tariff, though in the day he carefully avoided that subject, and said, in conclusion, that a good argument might be made on both sides, when he got thro' he told his brethren he wanted to meet with them in the morning before he took his departure. . . .

Speech in Virginia, Illinois
February 23, 1844
We had a meeting at night, and on the morning of the 23d, addresses were received from Mr. Killpatrick  and Mr. Lincoln. They portrayed the absurdities of loco focoism, and the soundness of whig principles, with great success.

Speech at Sugar Creek, Illinois
March 1, 1844
.... The poor ignorant people were enlightened by speeches (if they were worthy of the name) from Messrs Lincoln, Baker, Henry and McNeil.  Mr. Lincoln made some large statements, but I suppose they were true, for he had the document with him. He attempted to make the farmer believe that the high pressure tariff made every thing they bought cheaper, but said also he could not tell the reason, but that it was so, and I suppose that is enough for the huge farmer to know. Now, the little boys who Mr. Lincoln enlightened as to what the tariff was, could have told him better than to make such a statement. He then proceeded along very calmly, until Mr. Baker handed him a State Register, containing some extracts from the papers of Alex. Hamilton; then he rolled his eyes and shook his head, as if he had seen an Irishman.

Deed of Conveyance to Mary Lincoln
[March 18, 1844]
[Warranty Deed---Printed at the Office of the Sangamo Journal ] THIS INDENTURE, Made and entered into this 18th day of March A.D. 1844 between Robert Todd and Elizabeth Todd his wife of the County of Fayette and the State of Kentucky of the first part, and Mary [Lincoln]  daughter of said Robert and [wife of Abraham Lincoln] of the County of Sangamon and State of Illinois of the second part, WITNESSETH: That the said parties of the first part, for and in consideration of natural affection of one dollar in hand paid by the party of the second part, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, have granted, bargained and sold, and by these presents do grant, bargain and sell unto said party of the second part, her heirs and assigns, a certain tract of Land, situate, lying and being in the County of Sangamon and State of Illinois, known and designated as follows, to-wit: The East half of the South East quarter of section number twelve Township fifteen north of section number six west of the third principal meridian containing eighty acres more or less. TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the aforesaid tract or parcel of land, together with all and singular the privileges and appurtenances thereto belonging, or in any-wise appertaining, to the only proper use and benefit of her the said party of the second part, her heirs and assigns FOREVER. And the said party of the first part, for themselves their heirs, executors and administrators, do convenant to and with the said party of the second part, that they are lawfully seized, have full right to convey, and will forever WARRANT and DEFEND the said tract of LAND from the claim of them the said parties of the first part, their heirs and assigns, and against the claim or claims of any other person whomsoever. In Testimony Whereof, the said parties of the first part have hereunto set their hand and seal the day and year aforesaid. Signed, Sealed and delivered in presence of R.S. TODD (seal) E.L. TODD (seal) State of Kentucky  Fayette County: SS Before me, the undersigned, Clerk of the County Court for the County aforesaid, personally came Robert S. Todd & Elizabeth L. Todd his wife who are known to me to be the real persons by whom and in whose names the above conveyance was excuted, and by whom and in whose names said conveyance is proposed to be acknowledged, and acknowledged that of their free will, that they executed said deed for the purpose therein expressed. And the said Elizabeth L. Todd wife of the said Robert Todd being by me first examined separate and apart from her said husband and the contents of said conveyance being first make known to her acknowledged that freely and voluntarily and without any compulsion or coercion from her said husband she executed the same, and forever relinguishes all her right and claim of Dower in and to the lands and tenements in said conveyance described. Given under my hand and seal, of mine this 19 day of March in the year of our Lord one thousand eighth hundred and forty [four]. Att. JAMES C. RODES Sec. (seal) 

Debates with John Calhoun and Alfred W. Cavarly in Springfield, Illinois
March 20-25, 1844
This being the first week of our Circuit Court, arrangements have been made by the public speakers, of both parties, to devote the evening hours, to the discussion of the great questions involved in the coming Presidential election. . . . Judge CAVARLY. . . . quoted . . . from a speech of Mr. Stuart,  made in Congress, an admission that the consumer of imported articles paid the duty. . . . This only bright spot in Mr. Stuart's speech, so disturbed Mr. Lincoln, that he promised to forfeit his ``ears'' and his ``legs'' if he did not demonstrate, that protected articles have been cheaper since the late Tariff than before. . . . . . . . Mr. Calhoun's first speech on Wednesday evening was . . . unanswerable. . . . Though Mr. Calhoun triumphantly established the first proposition, yet Mr. Lincoln had the hardihood to assert that it might probably fall upon the manufacturer, after Mr. Calhoun had shown that it positively fell upon the consumer. . . . Mr. Lincoln very candidly acknowledged his inability to prove that the tariff had anything to do with the late low prices throughout this country and Europe. . . . There has been an interesting public discussion at the Court Room, on the political questions which divide the country, every evening of last week and Monday evening of this week. Mr. Cavarly of Green, lead off; and was followed by Wm. Brown, Esq. of Morgan---the two occupying two evenings. Mr. Calhoun followed Mr. Brown, and he by Mr. Lincoln, and these gentlemen continued the discussion five evenings. The discussion has been well attended, and we readily accord to Mr. Calhoun due praise for making most of a bad cause. The efforts of Mr. Lincoln, were distinguished for ability, and in all candor we must say, that we did not discover a single position raised by Mr. Calhoun, that he did not entirely demolish.

Mortgage Deed for Seth M. Tinsley
[March 21, 1844]
THIS INDENTURE, Made and entered into, this [twentyfirst] day of [March] A. D. 184, between [John H. Bridges and William Bridges] of the County of [Sangamon] and State of [Illinois, party] of the first part, and [Seth M. Tinsley] of the County of [Sangamon] and State of [Illinois, party] of the second part, WITNESSETH, That the said part[y] of the first part, for and in consideration of the sum of [$221.59.] Dollars, in hand paid by the said part[y] of the second part, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, ha[ve] granted, bargained and sold, and by these presents do grant bargain and sell, unto the said part[y] of the second part, [his] heirs assigns, [a] certain tract of Land situated, lying and being the County of [Sangamon] and State of [Illinois] known and designated as follows, to wit: [Part of the West half of the North West quarter of Section Thirtyfive in Township Fifteen North of Range Six West, being all of said half quarter, after deducting as follows towit, ten acres from the North East corner, as deeded to one Graham, ten acres in the South East corner, as deeded to Charles Getten, eight acres in the South West corner, as deeded to Elisha McComas, and fifteen acres from the West side, as deeded to Milton Richardson] TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the aforesaid tract or parcel of land, together with all and singular the privileges and appurtenances thereunto belonging, or in any-wise appertaining, to the only proper use and benefit of [him] the said part[y] of the second part, [his] heirs and assigns FOREVER, And the said part[y] of the first part, for [themselves, their] heirs, executors and administrators, do convenant to and with the said party of the second part, that [they are] lawfully seized, have full right to convey, and will forever WARRANT and DEFEND the said tract of LAND from the claim of [them] the said part[y] of the first part, [their] heirs and assigns, and against the claim or claims of any other person whomsoever. Nevertheless, upon this express condition, that [whereas the said party of the first part have executed their promissory note of even date herewith, for the sum of two hundred and twentyone dollars, and sixtynine cents, payable to S. M. Tinsley and Co or order before Christmas day next with twelve per cent interest per annum from date until paid. Now if said note shall be paid according to it's tend and effect, this deed is to be void and of no affect otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.] IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the said part[y] of the first part have hereunto set [their] hand[s] and seals the day and year aforesaid. signed sealed and delivered in presence of W Lavely WILLIAM BRIDGES (L.S.) John W. Bridges (L.S.) State of Illinois Sangamon County. ss. Before me, the undersigned a Justice of the Peace for the County aforesaid, personally came William Bridges and John W. Bridges who are known to me to be the real persons by whom and in whose names the above conveyance was excuted and by whom and in whose names said conveyance is proposed to be acknowledged, and acknowledged that of their free will, that they executed said deed for the purposes therein expressed. Given under my hand and seal, this 21st day of March in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-four W. LAVELY J.P. (L.S.)

To Rowland, Smith & Company
Messrs Rowland, Smith & Co. Springfield, Ills. Gent. April 24th. 1844-
Since the Supreme court of the United States have decided our property laws to be unconstitutional; and our own courts have ascertained, and concluded to follow the decision, we have become a little encouraged to make some further attempts to make some collections. Your case in our hands against Francis, Allen, & Stone stands about thus. 1841. March 26th. Judgement for $887.64. & costs. 1842. April 18th. Real estate sold and bought in for you at the sum of $666.67. and not redeemed. This sale, if we calculate the interest correctly, left still due you on that date $277.55, which with interest from that date amounts now to about $310.85. This last amount & the cost are still to pay. [We sup]pose you would be pleased to have it collected[, but in] as much as the officers have never received any thing [yet] for what they have already done, we apprehend they will be loth to proceed. The precise amount of cost already incurred we have not now at hand, but it will not greatly vary from $40. We will direct the Sheriff to collect the ballance. As to the real estate, we can not attend to it, as agents, & we therefore recommend that you give the charge of it, to Mr. Isaac S. Britton,  a trust-worthy man, & one whom the Lord made on purpose for such bussiness. Yours &c LOGAN & LINCOLN

To Horatio M. Vandeveer
Friend Vandaveer: Springfield, April 28th. 1844
On the other half of this sheet is a little Bill for a Divorce. I wish you would fill the blank in the proper place, with Taylor's christian name, file the Bill, and issue the subpoena in chancery for the woman immediately.  Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

Deed of Conveyance, Lincoln Home
[May 2, 1844]
WARRANTEE DEED, With Relinquishment of Dower. THIS INDENTURE, Made and entered into, this [Second] day of [May] A. D. 184, between [Charles Dresser & Louisa W. his wife] of the County of [Sangamon] and State of [Illinois], of the first part, and [Abraham Lincoln] of the County of [Sangamon] and State of [Illinois] of the second part, WITNESSETH, That the said part[y] of the first part, for and in consideration of the sum of [fifteen hundred] Dollars, in hand paid by the said part[y] of the second part, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, have granted, bargained and sold, and by these presents do grant bargain and sell, unto the said part[y] of the second part, [his] heirs and assigns, [a] certain tract of Land, situate, lying and being in the County of [Sangamon] and State of [Illinois] known and designated as follows, to wit: [''Lot number Eight, and a strip ten feet in width off of the South side of Lot number Seven, being the South quarter of said Lot Seven, both in Block number Ten in E. Iles' addition to the (late town now) city of Springfield in the county and State aforesaid.''] TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the aforesaid tract or parcel of land, together with all and singular the privileges and appurtenances thereunto belonging, or in any-wise appertaining, to the only proper use and benefit of [him] the said part[y] of the second part, [his] heirs and assigns FOREVER, And the said part[y] of the first part, for [themselves, their] heirs, executors and administrators, do convenant to and with the said part[y] of the second part, that [they are] lawfully seized, have full right to convey, and will forever WARRENT and DEFEND the said tract of LAND from the claim of [them] the said part[y] of the first part, [their] heirs and assigns, and against the claim or claims of any other person whomsoever. IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the said part[y] of the first part ha[ve] hereunto set [their] hand[s] and seals the day and year aforesaid. signed sealed and delivered CHARLES DRESSER (seal) in presence of LOUISA W. DRESSER (seal) W. Lavely State of Illinois, Sangamon County. ss. Before me, the undersigned a Justice of the Peace for the County aforesaid, personally came Charles Dresser & Louisa W. his wife who are known to me to be the real persons by whom and in whose names the above conveyance was excuted and by whom and in whose names said conveyance is proposed to be acknowledged, and acknowledged that of their free will, that they excuted said deed for the purposes therein expressed. And the said Louisa W. Dresser wife of the said Charles Dresser being by me first examined separate and apart from her said husband and the contents of said conveyance being first made known to her acknowledged that she freely and voluntarily and without any compulsion or coercion from her said husband she executed the same, and forever relinquish all her right and claim of Dower in and to the lands and tenements in said conveyance described. Given under my hand and seal, this 2d day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-four W. LAVELY J.P. (seal)

To John J. Hardin
Dear Hardin: Springfield, May 21, 1844.
Knowing that you have correspondents enough, I have forborne to trouble you heretofore; and I now only do so, to get you to set a matter right which has got wrong with one of our best friends. It is old uncle Thomas Campbell of Spring Creek---(Berlin P.O.) He has received several documents from you, and he says they are old newspapers and documents, having no sort of interest in them. He is, therefore, getting a strong impression that you treat him with disrespect. This, I know, is a mistaken impression; and you must correct it. The way, I leave to yourself. Rob't W. Canfield,  says he would like to have a document or two from you. The Locos here are in considerable trouble about Van Buren's letter on Texas,  and the Virginia electors. They are growing sick of the Tariff question;  and consequently are much confounded at V.B.'s cutting them off from the new Texas question. Nearly half the leaders swear they wont stand it. Of those are Ford, T. Campbell, Ewing, Calhoun and others.  They don't exactly say they won't vote for V. B., but they say he will not be the candidate,  and that they are for Texas anyhow. As ever yours, A. LINCOLN.

Speech on Annexation of Texas
May 22, 1844
A meeting was held at the State House on Wednesday evening, the 22d ult. for the purpose of considering the letters of Mr. Clay, Mr. Van Buren and Mr. Benton upon the question of immediate Annexation. The meeting was addressed by Mr. Lincoln, who briefly reviewed the grounds taken by those distinguished gentlemen, concurring with them in the opinion, that Annexation at this time upon the terms agreed upon by John Tyler was altogether inexpedient. . . .

Speech and Resolutions Concerning Philadelphia Riots
June 12, 1844
PUBLIC MEETING. At a meeting holden in the city of Springfield, on the evening of the 12th June; on motion of E. D. BAKER, Esq, DAVID J. BAKER, Esq. of Kaskaskia, was unanimously chosen to side over this meeting; and on motion of Dr. HENRY, BENJ F. JAMES, Esq of Tremont, was chosen Secretary. The object of the meeting being stated by ABRAHAM LINCOLN, Esq. of Springfield,---to be a desire, that the subject of the recent Philadelphia riots, as connected with, and promoted by the whig party, should be fairly discussed, and understood by the citizens of this State and country. On his motion, the following Preamble and Resolutions were submitted for the action of the meeting---supporting them by able and forcible arguments: WHEREAS, There seems to be a determined effort making, by the so called democratic party, to charge the blame of the late riots in Philadelphia, upon the Whigs; and to ascribe that blame to a supposed hostility of the Whig party in general to foreigners and Catholics ; and, WHEREAS, truth, and justice to ourselves, demand that we should repel the charge; therefore, Resolved , That in admitting the foreigner to the rights of citizenship, he should be put to some reasonable test of his fidelity to our country and its institutions; and that he should first dwell among us a reasonable time to become generally acquainted with the nature of those institutions; and that, consistent with these requisites, naturalization laws, should be so framed, as to render admission to citizenship under them, as convenient, cheap, and expeditious as possible. Resolved , That we will now, and at all times, oppose as best we may, all attempts to either destroy the naturalization laws or to so alter them, as to render admission under them, less convenient, less cheap, or less expeditious than it now is. Resolved , That the guarantee of the rights of conscience, as found in our Constitution, is most sacred and inviolable, and one that belongs no less to the Catholic, than to the Protestant; and that all attempts to abridge or interfere with these rights, either of Catholic or Protestant, directly or indirectly, have our decided disapprobation, and shall ever have our most effective opposition. Resolved , That we reprobate and condemn each and every thing in the Philadelphia riots, and the causes which led to them, from whatever quarter they may have come, which are in conflict with the principles above expressed. Mr. Lincoln . . . at a meeting of the whigs convened for the purpose of investigating the causes of the Philadelphia riots, said that he had not yet seen an account of this affair which he could rely upon as true ---(I should like to know how he is to judge of the correctness of any report.). . . . Mr. Lincoln however was incorrect in stating that the Catholics demanded the exclusion of the Bible from the public schools . . . all they wanted was the privilege . . . of introducing and using their own translation. Mr. Lincoln expressed the kindest, and most benevolent feelings towards foreigners; they were, I doubt not, the sincere and honest sentiments of his heart ; but they were not those of his party . . . . Mr. Lincoln also alleged that the whigs were as much the friends of foreigners as democrats; but he failed to substantiate it in a manner satisfactory to the foreigners who heard him. . . .

Resolutions Adopted by the Whig Convention at Peoria, Illinois
June 19, 1844
Resolved, That the Whigs of Illinois respond to the nomination of HENRY CLAY as the Whig candidate for the Presidency, by the Whig National Convention, with an enthusiasm only equalled by that [with] which it was made; that the great statesman of the West commands not only our admiration, for his brilliant and eminently practical talents, our respect and gratitude for his invaluable and ever patriotic services to our country, but the warmest and deepest feelings of our hearts for the noble and generous qualities so peculiarly characteristic of our gallant HARRY of the WEST. Resolved, That in THEODORE FRELINGHUYSEN, the nominee of the vice-presidency, we recognize an able and eloquent advocate of Whig principles, a statesman whose talents have given lustre to our national councils, a man whose pure life and active philanthropy commend him to the esteem of every good citizen, and who, in all the varied relations of life through which he has passed, has shown himself to be ``without fear and without reproach.'' Resolved, therefore, That the Whigs of Illinois in Convention assembled, hereby cordially ratify and confirm the nominations of the Whig National Convention, and pledge themselves to use all honorable efforts to insure their favorable reception and ratification at the polls in November next. Resolved, That thus responding to the nomination of HENRY CLAY for the Presidency, we hereby cordially adopt and affirm the principles which have guided, and have been so proverbially illustrated by that great man, in his long and brilliant career as an American Statesman. That foremost in importance among these principles we recognize and affirm, that of providing a national revenue by a tariff of duties on foreign importations, so adjusted that while it will yield no more than is necessary for an economical and efficient administration of the federal government, will at the same time afford equal protection and encouragement to every branch of American Industry. That, next in importance, in its effects upon the interests and welfare of the whole country, we regard the plan of distributing the proceeds of the public lands among the several States, as well on account of its intrinsic justice and expediency, as of its tendency to produce uniformity and stability in our National Legislature in regard to the revenue. That the establishment of a sound currency, the practical restriction of the veto power, so that it may not be wielded to the centralization of all power in the hands of a corrupt and despotic Executive; the limitation of the presidential office to one term; the non-interference of all officers of the government as such, in elections; an economical, faithful and impartial administration of the government---and reform of all those abuses which have sprung out of the corrupt use of the power of appointments, are also objects which claim our approval, and challenge our untiring efforts to secure their accomplishments. That the Whigs of Illinois, although often beaten in their political battles, have never yet been conquered, and that at the ides of November next, at the polls, we will fall into the phalanx of the Whig States, with a majority that shall show that in ``every peril'' the Suckers are willing to ``divide the danger.''

To John W. Vance
My dear old Friend: Springfield, July 7th. 1844-
Your letter of the 27th. June was received on yesterday. You remember taking the horse back from Karr, and receipting all of the debt except four hundred dollars and some interest. Well, at the last Decr. term of the U.S. court, we got a judgement for the $400. & interest according to your receipt. Kilgore was then in jail, and had been for three or four months. I had always had doubts about the legality of the transfer of the horse back to you, by Karr; and was fearful Kilgore might sue you, & recover either the horse or the value of him. I therefore made a written contract with Kilgore, in which he ratified the transfer of the horse to you by Karr, and I let him ``slope'' from the jail. His lying in jail so long, made a pretty big bill of cost. I presume near a hundred dollars---perhaps more. The whole cost, including this jail bill, you are liable for, though you have a judgement against the defendants for it. You personally, being security for costs, for your brother, in the suit, are liable any moment to be sued for the cost; and I may as well mention, that the jailor in particular, is continually deviling me to have his bill paid. I do wish you could do something for him. The judgement I think will be ultimately paid, but not speedily. Van Bergen, the deputy Marshall, who has the execution is out of town now, so that I can not give you particulars as to the prospect of collecting the debt. I believe this is about all the information I can give you. Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN

Resolutions Adopted by Springfield Clay Club on the Death of John Brodie
August 7, 1844
Whereas, we the Springfield Clay Club, impelled by a profound respect for the character of our late and lamented friend, JOHN BRODIE, and by the peculiarly afflictive manner of his death, are desirous of expressing in some appropriate way our deep and lasting regard for his memory: therefore Resolved, That we deeply mourn the loss we have sustained in the death of our fellow citizen, JOHN BRODIE, whose honesty and worth have endeared him to our whole community. Resolved, That we will cherish his memory with affectionate respect. Resolved, That a committee of five persons be appointed by the President to ascertain whether it will be agreeable to his family for us to place upon his grave a stone monument, with a suitable inscription, to his memory, and that they report to the next meeting of the Club. Resolved, That the members of this Club stand ready to render any assistance to the family of the deceased, which may be necessary and acceptable, and that said committee be instructed to inquire and report to this Club, from time to time, in what manner we may be able to assist the widow and the family of the deceased, in the settlement of their business, or in any other way that may contribute to the comfort or consolation of the bereaved family. Resolved , That said committee communicate to the afflicted wife of the deceased a copy of this Preamble and these resolutions.

Speech at Rockport, Indiana
October 30, 1844
Mr. Lincoln, of Springfield, Ill., addressed a large and respectable audience at the court house on Wednesday evening last, upon the whig policy. His main argument was directed in pointing out the advantages of a Protective Tariff. He handled that subject in a manner that done honor to himself and the whig cause. Other subjects were investigated in a like manner. His speech was plain, argumentative and of an hour's duration.

To Samuel D. Marshall
Dear Sam: Springfield, Decr 6. 1844.
In your last letter, you incline to complain, that in mine, I did not notice what you had said about the case of Stickney vs Cassell, nor the cases against the Shawneetown Bank. The truth is, when I received your letter, I glanced it over, stuck it away, postponed the consideration of the cases, above mentioned, and forgot them alltogether. I now give you some account of all your cases, in detail. Dorman vs Lane, stands as it did, & I will do the best I can with it according to your instructions. Gatewood vs. Wood & Wood we would have failed entirely to get into court but for an agreement with Mr. Eddy,  which saved us. By the agreement we altered the record so as to make it appear that it had been sent to the circuit court, also agreeing that at the next term of the Galatin circuit court, all the papers & orders are to be altered there accordingly nunc pro tunc . Stickney vs Cassell, I have just examined, & I think I can get the judgement affirmed. I'll try. The cases against the Bank, neither Logan nor I can engage in with you; we being to some extent standing counsel for Dunlap,  & also specially retained by him in these cases. Mr. Eddy has retained me in a case for your father, for the Supreme court, which, however, I have not yet examined. Give my respects to your Father and believe me as ever Your sincere friend A. LINCOLN

To John J. Hardin
Dear John J. Springfield, Ills. Decr. 17-1844
You perhaps know of the great scramble going on here about our Post-office. Upon general principles, you know this would be no concern of the whigs, but in this particular case, if it be in your power to do any thing, you may thereby do a favour to some of your friends here, without disobliging any of them, so far as I believe. The man we wish appointed is J. R. Diller---the reason is, that Major Spotswood's  family, now comparatively destitute, will be favoured by it. I write this by an understanding with Diller himself, who has seen it's contents. I do not perceive how you can effect any thing; but if you can and will , you will oblige at least Your sincere friend A. LINCOLN P.S. Let this be confidential. LINCOLN.

Request for Use of Hall of Representatives for a Temperance Lecture
To the Honorable, Springfield The House of Representatives, 25th. Jan. 1845-
At a very large and respectable meeting of ladies and gentlemen, held in this City on yesterday evening, it was resolved that the undersigned be appointed a committee to request of your Honorable body that Mr. Fairchild be permitted to deliver an address on Temperance this evening and also on monday evening next in the Representative Hall. Mr. Fairchild is a talented and eloquent young gentleman, eminently qualified to advance the cause of virtue and temperance & to promote the best interests of society. By permitting your Hall thus to be used your Honorable body will confer a great favor upon the whole community. All expences for keeping up fires, cleaning the Hall &c. shall be paid by private contribution. Most respectfully, Yours &c, J. LAMBORN. A. LINCOLN. J. DOUGHERTY. Committee &c

Recommendation for Admittance of Stanislaus P. Lalumiere to the Practice of Law
February 12, 1845
We the undersigned, having examined Stanislaus P. LaLumiere, touching his qualification to practice law, do recommend that he be allowed a license for the same. A. LINCOLN. Feby. 12. 1845. J. GILLESPIE

To Archibald Williams
Friend Williams: Springfield, March 1, 1845.
The supreme court adjourned this morning for the term. Your cases of Reinhardt vs. Schuyler, Bunce  vs. Schuyler, Dickhut vs. Dunell, and Sullivan vs. Andrews are continued. Hinman vs. Pope I wrote you concerning some time ago. McNutt et al. vs. Bean and Thompson is reversed and remanded. Fitzpatrick vs. Brady et al. is reversed and remanded with leave to complainant to amend his bill so as to show the real consideration given for the land. Bunce  against Graves, the court confirmed, wherefore, in accordance with your directions, I moved to have the case remanded to enable you to take a new trial in the court below. The court allowed the motion; of which I am glad, and I guess you are. This, I believe, is all as to court business. The canal men have got their measure through the legislature pretty much or quite in the shape they desired.  Nothing else now. Yours, as ever, A. LINCOLN.

Endorsement: Thomas Clements to Logan & Lincoln
March 19, 1845
We accept the within, on condition that Burtle's account is not to exceed ten dollars, and agree to pay accordingly, when the amount of the judgement comes to our hands. March 19. 1845. LOGAN & LINCOLN ``The clerk will please pag Mr. Burtle Ten Dollars out of the judgemt Clements v. Cloyd & take in and file this order.'' Logan & Lincoln

To Samuel D. Marshall
Dear Sam: Springfield, June 20. 1845-
I have wondered very much why you never wrote me, concerning the Dorman & Lane case, since I wrote you, as to the decision of it in the Supreme court. I learn this morning at the clerk's office, that Lane has not, as yet, taken out the order remanding it; and I think it possible, he may have abandoned it. You, perhaps, know his intention. The case of Gatewood vs. Wood & Wood---has that been settled? or how stands it? At the request of Mr. Eddy,  I attended a case in the Supreme court of Rawlings against Field,  your father, Mr. Eddy & some others, and got the judgment reversed. This was no business of yours, and I now only ask, as a favor of you, that if Mr. Eddy is well you say to him I would like to have the little fee in the case, if convenient. Please write me on the receipt of this. Yours forever A. LINCOLN.

To J. McDowell
Dear Sir: Springfield, August 8. 1845
I hope you will excuse me for not sooner answering Mr. Constable's  letter, inclosing also one from you, when I assure you that I have not until now, had an oppertunity to examine the case. Mr. Constable has stated or rather propounded several interrogatories, but I think I can express my views better without following them strictly. Whatever your uncle could do, if he were now alive, in relation to this contract, I think these devisees can now do---that is, your uncle, if now alive, could tender the remaining payment and interest, and have a specific performance, or damages in lieu, unless he should be barred by the Statute of limitations; but he would be barred by the Statute, unless there is some great length of time allowed by the terms of the bond for the payment of the money. The terms of the bond, in this particular you have not aforded me the means of knowing. But these devisees may stand on better ground than your uncle would if alive, as against the Statute of limitations; that is to say, if your uncle was not, by the terms of the bond, in default of payment, before his death, then the time of the minority of the devisees will not be counted against them otherwise, if he was so in default. My opinion upon the whole case is about this: If your uncle was in default of payment, by the terms of the bond, before his death, these devisees can maintain no sort of suit in relation to the matter; if he was not so in default, they can, by tendering or paying the remaining payment, with interest, have the land, or damages in lieu. Mr. Constable has said something about these devisees having no more than a life-estate. My view of our Statute on this subject is, that these devisees take a life-estate, and their heirs male, the title in in [ sic ] fee---nothing ever returning to your fathers heirs so far as this question is concerned. I will say farther that, if I were you, I would not compromise the case at any cost; but let them sue if they will. Even if the main point of the case is against you, there will be so many little breaker's in their way, as to prevent their ever getting through safely. Respectfully A. LINCOLN

Petition for Pardon of a Person Unknown
September [15?] 1845
To His Excellency Thomas Ford Governor of the State of Illinois The undersigned would respectfully represent, that at the last term of the McLean circuit court held in the month of September, AD 1845, a person to said court unknown, was indicted, plead guilty to the charge and was by said court sentenced to the Penitentiary for the term of one year for the crime of Larceny. That said person was apprehended about five month[s] previous to the sitting of said court during all which time he has been confined in the Jail for the county of McLean. That during his said confinement he has in all respects behaved and conducted himself as one worthy of a better fate. That he has at all times acknowledged the taking of the watch with which he has been charged, and upon which he has been sentenced. That he was destitute of money at the time he took the watch and we have been told that he tried repeatedly on the road to obtain employment as a labouring hand, but was not successful in getting work. We would therefore humbly suggest that in consideration of the punishment, which he has already received, together with his conduct, destitution & youth, that in our opinions he is a fit object for executive clemency. We therefore petition your excellency, that he may be reprieved, and as in duty bound your Petitioners will ever pray.

To Williamson Durley
Friend Durley: Springfield, Octr. 3. 1845
When I saw you at home,  it was agreed that I should write to you and your brother Madison.  Until I then saw you, I was not aware of your being what is generally called an abolitionist, or, as you call yourself, a Liberty-man; though I well knew there were many such in your county. I was glad to hear you say that you intend to attempt to bring about, at the next election in Putnam, a union of the whigs proper, and such of the liberty men, as are whigs in principle on all questions save only that of slavery. So far as I can perceive, by such union, neither party need yield any thing, on the point in difference between them. If the whig abolitionists of New York had voted with us last fall, Mr. Clay would now be president, whig principles in the ascendent, and Texas not annexed; whereas by the division, all that either had at stake in the contest, was lost. And, indeed, it was extremely probable, beforehand, that such would be the result. As I always understood, the Liberty-men deprecated the annexation of Texas extremely; and, this being so, why they should refuse to so cast their votes as to prevent it, even to me, seemed wonderful. What was their process of reasoning, I can only judge from what a single one of them told me. It was this: ``We are not to do evil that good may come.'' This general, proposition is doubtless correct; but did it apply? If by your votes you could have prevented the extention , &c. of slavery, would it not have been good and not evil so to have used your votes, even though it involved the casting of them for a slaveholder? By the fruit the tree is to be known. An evil tree can not bring forth good fruit. If the fruit of electing Mr. Clay would have been to prevent the extension of slavery, could the act of electing have been evil ? But I will not argue farther. I perhaps ought to say that individually I never was much interested in the Texas question. I never could see much good to come of annexation; inasmuch, as they were already a free republican people on our own model; on the other hand, I never could very clearly see how the annexation would augment the evil of slavery. It always seemed to me that slaves would be taken there in about equal numbers, with or without annexation. And if more were taken because of annexation, still there would be just so many the fewer left, where they were taken from. It is possibly true, to some extent, that with annexation, some slaves may be sent to Texas and continued in slavery, that otherwise might have been liberated. To whatever extent this may be true, I think annexation an evil. I hold it to be a paramount duty of us in the free states, due to the Union of the states, and perhaps to liberty itself (paradox though it may seem) to let the slavery of the other states alone; while, on the other hand, I hold it to be equally clear, that we should never knowingly lend ourselves directly or indirectly, to prevent that slavery from dying a natural death---to find new places for it to live in, when it can no longer exist in the old. Of course I am not now considering what would be our duty, in cases of insurrection among the slaves. To recur to the Texas question, I understand the Liberty men to have viewed annexation as a much greater evil than I ever did; and I, would like to convince you if I could, that they could have prevented it, without violation of principle, if they had chosen. I intend this letter for you and Madison together; and if you and he or either shall think fit to drop me a line, I shall be pleased. Yours with respect A. LINCOLN

Release of Judgment Against Francis Regnier
October 24, 1845
For and in consideration of the sum of twenty five dollars received of Francis Regnier,  I do hereby transfer and release to said Regnier all my right, title and interest in and to a judgment obtained in the Morgan circuit court in the year 1844 in favor of Eliza S. Cabbott  (since married to Torry)  against said Regnier in being my individual interest and believed to be one eighth part of said judgment, be the same more or less. Witness my hand this 24th. day of October 1845; as one of the attornies of the plaintiff. A. LINCOLN

Petition for Pardon of Samuel Smith
[November, 1845]
To the Honorable the Governor of the State of Illinois Thomas Ford Your Petitioners would respectfully represent that Samuel Smith a citizen of this State and of Sangamon, was at the last Term of the Circuit court, indicted for an assault by the Grand jurors of said County and convicted by the petit jurors of an assault and sentenced by the Honorable Judge of the Circuit, Samuel H. Treat, to three days imprisonment and ten dollars fine and pay the cost of suit. Your petitioners would further respectfully represent that the Said Saml. Smith has lain in the county jail all the said term and several days more and that he is still in jail and is a poor man and is unable to pay the fine and costs of suit and they would most respectfully ask of Your Excellency to release him from prison, so that he may pay the fine and cost of suit

To Benjamin F. James
Friend James: Springfield, Nov: 17, 1845.
The paper at Pekin  has nominated Hardin for Governor; and, commenting on this, the Alton paper,  indirectly nominates him for Congress. It would give Hardin a great start, and perhaps use me up, if the whig papers of the District should nominate him for Congress . If your feelings towards me are the same as when I saw you (which I have no reason to doubt) I wish you would let nothing appear in your paper which may opperate against me. You understand. Matters stand just as they did when I saw you. Baker is certainly off of the track, and I fear Hardin intends to be on it. In relation to the business you wrote me of, some time since, I suppose the Marshall called on you; and we think it can be adjusted, at court, to the satisfaction of you & friend Thompson.  [A. LINCOLN] 

To Henry E. Dummer
Friend Dummer: Springfield, Nov: 18th. 1845
Before Baker  left, he said to me, in accordance with what had long been an understanding between him and me, that the track for the next congressional race was clear to me, so far as he was concerned; and that he would say so publicly in any manner, and at any time I might desire. I said, in reply, that as to the manner and time, I would consider a while, and write him. I understand friend Delahay  to have already informed you of the substance of the above. I now wish to say to you that if it be consistent with your feelings, you would set a few stakes for me. I do not certainly know, but I strongly suspect, that Genl. Hardin  wishes to run again. I know of no argument to give me a preference over him, unless it be ``Turn about is fair play.'' The Pekin paper  has lately nominated or suggested Hardin's name for Governor, and the Alton paper,  noticing that, indirectly nominates him for Congress. I wish you would, if you can, see that, while these things are bandied about among the papers, the Beards-town paper  takes no stand that may injure my chance, unless the conductor really prefers Genl. Hardin, in which case, I suppose it would be fair. Let this be confidential, and please write me in a few days. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. James
Friend James: Springfield, Novr. 24th. 1845
Yours of the 19th. was not received till this morning. The error I fell into in relation to the Pekin paper, I discovered myself the day after I wrote you.  The way I fell into it was, that Stuart (John T) met me in the court & told me about a nomination having been made in the Pekin paper, and about the comments upon it in the Alton paper; and without seeing either paper myself, I wrote you. In writing to you, I only meant to call your attention to the matter; and that done, I knew all would be right with you. Of course I should not have thought this necessary, if, at the time, I had known that the nomination had been made in your paper. And let me assure you, that if there is any thing in my letter indicating an opinion that the nomination for Governor , which I supposed to have been made in the Pekin paper, was opperating, or could opperate against me, such was not my meaning. Now, that I know that nomination was made by you,  I say that it may do me good while I do not see that it can do me harm. But, while the subject is in agitation, should any of the papers in the District nominate the same man  for Congress that would do me harm; and it was that which I wished to guard against. Let me assure that I do not, for a moment, suppose, that what you have done is ill-judged; or that any thing you shall do, will be. It was not to object to the course of the Pekin paper (as I then thought it) but to guard against any falling into the wake of the Alton paper, that I wrote. You, perhaps, have noticed the Journal's article of last week, upon the same subject. It was written without any consultation with me, but I was told by Francis  of it's purport before it was published. I chose to let it go as it was, lest it should be suspected that I was attempting to juggle Hardin out of a nomination for congress by juggleing him into one for Governor. If you, and the other papers, a little more distant from me, choose, to take the same course you have, of course I have no objection. After you shall have received this, I think we shall fully understand each other, and that our views as to the effects of these things are not dissimilar. Confidential of course Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. James
B. F. James Esq. Springfield, Ills., Dec. 6, 1845.
Dear Sir: To succeed, I must have 17 votes in convention. To secure them, I think I may safely claim Sangamon 8, Menard 2, Logan 1, making 11, so that if you and other friends can secure Dr. Boal's  entire senatorial district, that is, Tazewell 4, Woodford 1, and Marshall 1, it just covers the case. . . . Upon the whole, it is my intention to give him the trial, unless clouds should rise, which are not yet discernible. This determination you need not, however, as yet, announce in your paper, at least not as coming from me. . . . In doing this, let nothing be said against Hardin . . . nothing deserves to be said against him. Let the pith of the whole argument be ``Turn about is fair play.'' Yours very truly, A. LINCOLN P.S. . . . A. L.

To Samuel D. Marshall
Friend Sam: Springfield Decr. 30. 1845
I learned to day, that Lane,  to avoid paying the cost of taking the case between Dorman and him, back from the Supreme Court, has commenced a new proceeding in your circuit court. Write me, if this is so; and I together with judge Logan, will try to frame a plea either in bar or in abatement, out of the fact of the pendency of the old case, that shall blow them up with their new case. By the way, if they fail for more than year (which they have nearly done already) to take the old case down from here, I think we can plead limitation on them, so that it will stick for good and all. Dont speak of this, lest they hear it, and take the alarm. Write me on receipt of this. Yours as ever--- A. LINCOLN

Endorsement
[1846-1847?]
At the request of Mr. Crosby,  I most cheerfully state that I concur fully in the foregoing certificate of Judge Treat. It is thought not improper for me to add, that I am the Representative to Congress for the District in which Mr. Crosby resides. A. LINCOLN

To Robert Boal
Dear Doctor Springfield Jany. 7 1846.
Since I saw you last fall, I have often thought of writing you as it was then understood I would, but on reflection I have always found that I had nothing new to tell you. All has happened as I then told you I expected it would---Baker's declining, Hardin's taking the tract, and so on. If Hardin and I stood precisely equal---that is, if neither of us had been to congress, or if we both had---it would only accord with what I have always done, for the sake of peace, to give way to him; and I expect I should do it. That I can voluntarily postpone my pretentions, when they are no more than equal to those to which they are postponed, you have yourself seen. But to yield to Hardin under present circumstances, seems to me as nothing else than yielding to one who would gladly sacrifice me altogether. This, I would rather not submit to. That Hardin is talented, energetic, usually generous and magnanimous, I have, before this, affirmed to you, and do not now deny. You know that my only argument is that ``turn about is fair play''. This he, practically at least, denies. If it would not be taxing you too much, I wish you would write me, telling the aspect of things in your county, or rather your district; and also send the names of some of your whig neighbours, to whom I might, with propriety write. Unless I can get some one to do this, Hardin with his old franking list, will have the advantage of me. My reliance for a fair shake (and I want nothing more) in your county is chiefly on you, because of your position and standing, and because I am acquainted with so few others. Let this be strictly confidential, & any letter you may write me shall be the same if you desire. Let me hear from you soon. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. James
Friend James: Springfield, Jany. 14- 1846.
Yours of the 10th. was not received until this morning. I can not but be pleased with it's contents. I saw Henry's communication  in your paper, as also your editorial remarks, neither of which, in my opinion, was in any way misjudged---both quite the thing. I think just as you do concerning the dictation of the course of the Alton paper, and also, concerning it's utter harmlessness. As to the proposition to hold the convention at Petersburg, I will at once tell you all I know, and all I feel. A good friend of ours there, John Bennett, wrote me that he thought it would do good with the whigs of Menard, to see a respectable convention conducted in good style. They are a little disinclined, to adopt the convention system; & Bennett thinks some of their prejudices would be done away by their having the convention amongst them. At his request, therefore I had the little paragraph put in the Journal.  This is all I know. Now, as to what I feel ,---I feel a desire that they of Petersburg should be gratified, if it can be done without a sacrafice of the wishes of others, and without detriment to the cause---nothing more. I can gain nothing in the contest by having it there. I showed your letter to Stuart, and he thinks there is something in your suggestion of holding it at your town. I should be pleased if I could concur with you in the hope that my name would be the only one presented to the convention---but I can not. Hardin is a man of desparate energy and perseverance; and one that never backs out; and, I fear, to think otherwise, is to be deceived in the character of our adversary. I would rejoice to be spared the labour of a contest; but ``being in'' I shall go it thoroughly, and to the bottom. As to my being able to make a break in the lower counties, I tell you that I can possibly get Cass, but I do not think I will. Morgan & Scott are beyond my reach. Menard is safe to me. Mason---neck and neck. Logan is mine. To make the matter sure, your entire Senatorial District must be secured. Of this I suppose Tazewell is safe; and I have much done in both the other counties. In Woodford I have Davenport,  Simms, Willard,  Bracken,  Perry[,]  Travis,  Dr. Hazzard [ sic ],  and the Clarks [ sic ],  & some others all specially committed. At Lacon, in Marshall the very most active friend I have in the District (If I except yourself) is at work.  Through him I have procured their names, and written to three or four of the most active whigs in each precinct of the county. Still I wish you all in Tazewell, to keep your eyes continually on Woodford and Marshall. Let no oppertunity of making a mark escape. When they shall be safe, all will be safe--- I think . The Beardstown paper  is entirely in the hands of my friends. The editor is a whig, and personally dislikes Hardin. When this Supreme court shall adjourn, (which it is thought will be about the 15th. of February) it is my intention to take a quiet trip through the towns and neighbourhoods of Logan county, Delevan [ sic ], Tremont,  and on to & through the upper counties. Dont speak of this, or let it relax any of your vigilance. When I shall reach Tremont, we will talk over every thing at large. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John Bennett
Friend John: Springfield, Jany. 15- 1846
Nathan Dresser  is here, and speaks as though the contest between Hardin & me is to be doubtful in Menard county. I know he is candid, and this alarms me some. I asked him to tell me the names of the men that were going strong for Hardin; he said Morris  was about as strong as any. Now tell me, is Morris going it openly? You remember you wrote me, that he would be neutral. Nathan also said that some man (who he could not remember) had said lately, that Menard county was again to decide the contest; and that that made the contest very doubtful.  Do you know who that was? Dont fail to write me instantly on receiving this, telling me all---particularly the names of those who are going strong against me. Yours as ever, A. LINCOLN

To John Bennett
Dear John: Springfield, Jany. 16- 1846.
The enclosed letters I wrote last night, but when I went to the Post-office this morning your mail had left about half an hour. So I send them by Mr. Harris.  Will you please take out the one addressed to you,  and drop the others in your Post-office, unless you see the men to hand them to in person, in which case please do that. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. James
Dear James: Springfield, Jany. 16. 1846-
A plan is on foot to change the mode of selecting the candidate for this district.  The movement is intended to injure me, and if effected, most likely would injure me to some extent. I have not time to give particulars now; but I want you to let nothing prevent your getting an article in your paper, of this week  taking strong ground for the old system, under which Hardin & Baker were nominated, without seeming to know or suspect, that any one desires to change it. I have written Dr. Henry more at length; and he will probably call & consult with you, in getting up the article; but whether he does or not dont fail, on any account, to get it in this week . [A. LINCOLN] 

To John J. Hardin
Dear Genl.  Springfield, Jany. 19th. 1846
I do not wish to join in your proposal  of a new plan for the selection of a whig candidate for congress, because 1st. I am entirely satisfied with the old system  under which you and Baker were successively nominated and elected to congress; and because the whigs of the District are well acquainted with that system, and, so far as I know or believe, are universally satisfied with it. If the old system be thought to be vague, as to all the delegates of a county, voting the same, way; or as to instructions to them, as to whom they are to vote for; or as to filling vacancies, I am willing to join in a provision to make these matters certain. 2nd. As to your proposals that a poll shall be opened in every precinct, and that the whole shall take place on the same day, I do not personally object. They seem to me to not be unfair; and I forbear to join in proposing them, only because I rather choose to leave the decision in each county to the whigs of the county, to be made as their own judgment and convenience may dictate. 3rd. As to your proposed stipulation that all the candidates shall remain in their own counties, and restrain their friends to the same, it seems to me that on reflection you will see, the fact of your having been in congress, has, in various ways, so spread your name in the district, as to give you a decided advantage in such a stipulation. I appreciate your desire to keep down excitement; and I promise you to ``keep cool'' under all circumstances. 4th. I have already said I am satisfied with the old system, under which such good men have triumphed; and that I desire no departure from its principles. But if there must be a departure from it, I shall insist upon a more accurate and just apportionment of delegates, or representative votes, to the constituent body, than exists by the old; and which you propose to retain in your new plan. If we take the entire population of the counties as shown by the late census, we shall see that by the old plan, and by your proposed new plan Morgan county with a population of 16.541 has	 8 votes while Sangamon with 18.697---2156 greater has but	 8 do So, Scott, with 6553---has	 4 do while Tazewell with 7615---1062 greater---	 has but	 4 do--- So, Mason with 3135 has		1. do while Logan with 3907---772 greater has but	 1. do--- And so, in a less degree, the matter runs through all the counties; being not only wrong in principle, but the advantage of it being all manifestly in your favour, with one slight exception in the comparison of two counties not here mentioned. Again: If we take the whig votes of the counties as shown by the late presidential election as a basis, the thing is still worse. Take a comparison of the same six counties--- Morgan, with her 1443 whig votes has	8 votes Sangamon with her 1837---	394 greater only	8 do. Mason with her	255---	has	1 do Logan do do	310---	55 greater only.	1. do Scott do do	670--- has		4. do Tazewell do do	1011.	341 greater---only	4. do--- It seems to me most obvious that the old system needs adjustment in nothing so much as in this; and still by your proposal, no notice is taken of it. I have always been in the habit of acceeding to almost any proposal that a friend would make; and I am truly sorry I can not in this. I perhaps ought to mention that some friends at different places, are endeavouring to secure the honor of the sitting of a convention at their towns respectively; and I fear they would not feel much complimented, if we were to make a bargain that it shall sit no where. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To N. J. Rockwell
N. J. Rockwell: Springfield, January 21, 1846.
Dear Sir: You perhaps know that General Hardin and I have a contest for the Whig nomination for Congress for this district. He has had a turn and my argument is ``Turn about is fair play.'' I shall be pleased if this strikes you as a sufficient argument. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Receipt for H. C. Gibson's Pockets

We have found in H C Gibsons Pokets ten dollars and fifteen cts in cash JOHN ALLEN Jan 25th. 1846 A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. James
Dear James: Springfield, Jany. 27. 1846
Yours enclosing the article  from the Whig is received. In my judgment you have hit the matter exactly right. I believe it is too late to get the article in the Journal of this week;  but Dickinson  will understand it just as well from your paper, knowing, as he does, your position towards me. More than all, I wrote him at the same time I did you. As to suggestions for the committee, I would say appoint the convention for the first monday of May---as to the place , I can hardly make a suggestion, so many points desiring it. I was at Petersburg saturday and sunday; and they are very anxious for it there. A friend has also written me, desiring it at Beardstown.  I would have the committee leave the mode of choosing delegates to the whigs of the different counties, as may best suit them respectively. I would have them propose, for the sake of uniformity that the delegates should all be instructed as to their man, and the delegation of each county should go as a unit. If, without this, some counties should send united delegations & others divided ones, it might make bad work. Also have it proposed, that when the convention shall meet, if there shall be any absent delegates, the members present may fill the vacancies, with persons to act under the same instructions, which may be known to have been given to such absentees. You understand. Other particulars I leave to you. I am sorry to say I am afraid I can not go to Mason, so as to attend to your business; but if I shall determine to go there, I will write you. Do you hear any thing from Woodford & Marshall? Davenport,  ten days ago, passed through here, and told me Woodford is safe; but, though in hope, I am not entirely easy about Marshall. I have so few personal acquaintances in that county, that I can not get at [it?] right. Dickinson is doing all that any one man can do; but it seems like it is an over-task for one. I suppose Dr. Henry will be with you on saturday. I got a letter from him to-day on the same subject as yours; and shall write him before saturday. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To John J. Hardin
Genl. J. J. Hardin: Springfield. Dear Sir: Feb. 7. 1846-
Your second letter  was duly received and, so far as it goes, it is entirely satisfactory. I had set apart the leisure this day affords, to write you the long letter alluded to by me in my last; but on going to the Post-office, and seeing the communication in the Morgan Journal,  I am almost discouraged of the hope of doing any good by it; especially when I reflect that most probably that communication was written with your knowledge, in as much as it proceeds partly on information which could only have been furnished by you. However, as I suppose it can do no harm , I will proceed. Your letter, admiting my right to seek, or desire, a nomination for congress, opens with an expression of dissatisfaction with the manner in which you think I have endeavoured to obtain it. Now, if I have , sought the nomination in an improper manner; you have the right, to the extent, to be dissatisfied. But I deny all impropriety on my part, in the matter. In the early part of your letter, you introduce the proposition made by me to you and Baker, that we should take a turn a piece; and alluding to the principle you suppose [to] be involved in it, in an after part of your letter, you say---``As a whig I have constantly combatted such practices when practiced among the Locos; & I do not see that they are any more praise worthy, or less anti-republican, when sought to be adopted by whigs.'' Now, if my proposition had been that we (yourself, Baker & I) should be candidates by turns, and that we should unite our strength throughout to keep down all other candidates, I should not deny the justice of the censurable language you employ; but if you so understood it, you wholly misunderstood it. I never expressed, nor meant to express, that by such an arrangement, any one of us should be, in the least restricted in his right to support any person he might choose, in the District; but only that he should not himself , be a candidate out of his turn. I felt then, and it seems to me I said then, that even with such an arrangement, should Governor Duncan be a candidate, when you were not, it would be your previlege and perhaps your duty to go for him. In this, the true sense of my proposition, I deny that there is any thing censurable in it---any thing but a spirit of mutual concession, for harmony's sake. In this same connection you say, ``It is, in effect, acting upon the principle that the District is a horse which each candidate may mount and ride a two mile heat without consulting any body but the grooms & Jockeys.'' Well, of course, you go the contrary of this principle; which is, in effect acting on the principle that the District is a horse which, the first jockey that can mount him, may whip and spur round and round, till jockey, or horse, or both, fall dead on the track. And upon your principle, there is a fact as fatal to your claims as mine, which is, that neither you nor I, but Baker is the jockey now in the stirrups. ``Without consulting any body but the grooms & Jockeys'' is an implied charge that I wish, in some way to interfere with the right of the people to select their candidate. I do not understand it so. I, and my few friends say to the people that ``Turn about is fair play.'' You and your friends do not meet this, and say ``Turn about is not fair play''---but insist the argument itself, ought not to be used. Fair or unfair, why not trust the people to decide it? In the early part of your letter you say ``It is also true that you did come to my house early in September to know whether I desired to run, stating that you wanted to give Baker a race.'' In this you are mistaken. I did not state to you that I wanted to give Baker a race; but on the contrary I told you I believed I could get Baker off the track. I do not know that you attached any importance to what I am disavowing; but, on the contrary, I do not know but you mean it as the basis of an inference that I acted deceitfully with you, in pretending to expect a contest with Baker, when in fact I did not expect it. It is true, that after Baker's interview with you in September, he did send a letter, by a messenger, to me at Tremont; in which letter he detailed what passed at the interview, and the result, precisely as you do, in substance; and in which letter he did urge me to relinquish my my [ sic ] pretensions. He had before told me that he would not be a candidate, if I desired he should not; and he then repeated it; but at the same time argued that you, by having been in congress, and having taken a high stand then, would in all probability beat me; so that the sacrafice he made for me, in declining, would, in the end, do me no good. And this is as near as I ever came of hearing Baker express the determination that I should beat you, if he could not; which you say you have learned he did. When he finally determined to decline, he did express the wish that I might succeed; and he has since written his letter of declension; and when that is told; all I know, or believe, as to him, is told . If he has ever, in any way, attempted to dictate to any friend of his to go for me in preference of you, it is more than I know or believe. That he has a part assigned him to act in the drama, I know to be untrue. What I here say, is not in its nature capable of very certain proof; but it may be said, that being where he is, he can only opperate against you by letters. If he attempts this to any considerable extent, some of them will fall into the hands of your friends who will apprize you of them. Have you yet seen or heard of any? I now quote from your letter again. ``You well knew I would not be a candidate for Governor. Yet during the fall courts, whilst I learn you were obtaining pledges from all the whigs you could to support you for the next candidate, my name was run up as a candidate for Governor by one of your friends under circumstances which now leave no room for doubt that the design was to keep my name out of view for congress, so that the whigs might be more easily influenced to commit themselves to go for you.'' Now this is a direct imputation that I procured , or winked at , or in some way directly or indirectly, had a hand in , the nominating of you for Governor;  and the imputation is, to the utmost hair-breadth of it, unjust. I never knew , or believed , or had any suspicion , that it was done , or was to be done , until it was out, had gone to Alton, and been commented upon in the Alton paper, and came back to Springfield, and my attention was called to it by Stuart, in our circuit court room, a few days, as I remember it, after you had been here attending to the case of Thayer vs Farrell, and had left. I went immediately to the Journal office, and told them it was my wish that they should not fall in with the nomination for Governor. They showed me a little paragraph, which they had already prepared, and which was published, and seen by you, as I suppose. The reason I had not seen the nomination in the Tazewell paper was, as I suppose, because I did not then, as I do not now, take that paper. That I was wholly innocent and ignorant of that movement, I believe, if need be, I can prove more conclusively than is often in the power of man to prove any such thing. In the paragraph last quoted you say that the design was to keep your name out of view &c. In the general disavowal I have made, this last is, of course included; and I now go farther, and declare, that to my recollection, I have not, in a single instance, presented my name as a candidate for congress, without, at the same time presenting yours for the same place. I have some times met a man who would express the opinion that you would yield the track to me; and some times one who believed you would be a candidate for Governor; and I invariably assured such, that you would, in my opinion, be a candidate for congress . And while I have thus kept your name in view for congress, I have not reproached you for being a candidate, or for any thing else; on the contrary I have constantly spoken of you in the most kind and commendatory terms, as to your talents, your past services, and your goodness of heart. If I falsify in this, you can convict me. The witnesses live, and can tell. And now tell me: If you think so harshly of me because a paper under the control of one of my friends nominated you for Governor, what , or how , ought I to think of you because of your paper at Jacksonville doing the same thing for me twice? Why, you will say you had nothing [to] do with it; and I shall believe you; but why am I to be judged less charatably? In another part of your letter you attempt to convict me of giving a double account as to my motive in introducing the resolution to the convention at Pekin. You say ``You then told me the object was to soothe Baker's mortified feelings, and that it did not amount to a committal of any body.'' ``Now you say the object was to give Baker the field for the next race, so as to keep the party together.'' I kept no copy of my letter; but I guess if you will turn to it, you will find that I have not, any where in it, said ``the object was to give Baker the field for the next race &c'' and then if you will allow that you may have committed as great a mistake, as to what I told you at Pekin, you will find yourself a good deal short of the conviction you intended. What I told you at Pekin I do not precisely recollect; but I am sure of some things I did not tell you or any one else. If you shall say that I told you it was an object with me, in introducing the resolution, to soothe Baker's feelings, I shall admit it; but if you shall say I told you that, that was the sole object, I deny it. If you shall say I then told you that the passage of the resolution amounted to a committal of no one, I deny that also; but if you shall say I then told you, it amounted to a committal of no one, except the delegates, generally who voted for it, and me, particularly, who introduced it, I shall not deny it. This much, and no more, as a committal, I always supposed it to amount to; and I guess you will be able to find nothing in my late letter to you that is inconsistent with this. And I here add, that I have not since entering this contest with you, or at any time, sought to appropriate to myself any benefit from that resolution, e[i]ther as settling the succession to pass through me, or as settling a principle that shall give the succession that direction. I have said that ``Turn about is fair play''; but this I have said just as I would, if that resolution had never been thought of. I should not hesitate to say publicly, that I claim nothing, in any form, through the Pekin convention, were it not that some friends have thought and spoken differently, and I dislike to rebuke them for what they have not supposed to be injustice to you, while they have meant it in kindness to me---yet, rather than be over-delicate, if you desire it, I will do it any how. I repeat, I desire nothing from the Pekin convention. If I am not, (in services done the party, and in capacity to serve in future) near enough your equal, when added to the fact of your having had a turn, to entitle me to the nomination, I scorn it on any and all other grounds. The question of capacity, I opine your Morgan Journal correspondent will find little difficulty in deciding; and probably the District may concur, with quite as little. A good long paragraph of your letter is occupied in an argument to prove that struggles for the succession will break down the party. It is certain that struggles between candidates, do not strengthen a party; but who are most responsible for these struggles, those who are willing to live and let live, or those who are resolved, at all hazzards, to take care of ``number one''? Take, as an example, the very case in hand. You have (and deservedly) many devoted friends; and they have been gratified by seeing you in congress, and taking a stand that did high credit to you and to them. I also have a few friends (I fear not enough) who, as well as your own, aided in giving you that distinction. Is it natural that they shall be greatly pleased at hearing what they helped to build up, turned into an argument, for keeping their own favourite down? Will they grow, and multiply on such grateful food? Is it by such exclusiveness that you think a party will gain strength? In my letter to you,  I reminded you that you had first at Washington, and afterwards at Pekin, said to me that if Baker succeeded he would most likely hang on as long as possible, while with you it would be different. If I am not mistaken in your having said this (and I am sure I am not) it seems you then thought a little more favourably of ``turn about'' than you seem to now. And in writing your letter you seem to have felt this; for that is about the only part of mine, that you have failed to notice. After, by way of imputations upon me, you have used the the [ sic ] terms ``management'' ``manoevering'' and ``combination'' quite freely, you, in your closing paragraph say: ``For it is mortifying to discover that those with whom I have long acted & from whom I expected a different course, have considered it all fair to prevent my nomination to congress.'' Feeling, as I do, the utter injustice of these imputations, it is somewhat difficult to be patient under them---yet I content myself with saying that if there is cause for mortification any where, it is in the readiness with which you believe, and make such charges, against one with whom you truly say you have long acted; and in whose conduct, you have heretofore marked nothing as dishonorable. I believe you do not mean to be unjust, or ungenerous; and I, therefore am slow to believe that you will not yet think better and think differently of this matter. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Benjamin F. James
Dear James: Springfield, Feb. 9. 1846
You have seen, or will see what I am inclined to think you will regard as rather an extraordinary communication in the Morgan Journal.  The ``excessive modesty'' of it's tone is certainly admirable. As an excuse for getting before the public, the writer sets out with a pretence of answering an article which I believe appeared in the Lacon paper some time since; taking the ground that the Pekin convention had settled the rotation principle. Now whether the Pekin convention did or did not settle that principle, I care not. If I am not, in what I have done , and am able to do , for the party, near enough the equal of Genl. Hardin, to entitle me to the nomination, now that he has one, I scorn it on any and all other grounds. So far then, as this Morgan Journal commun[ic]ation may relate to the Pekin convention, I rather prefer that your paper shall let it ``stink and die'' unnoticed. There is, however, as you will see, another thing in the communication which is, an attempt to injure me because of my declining to recommend the adoption of a new plan , for the selecting a candidate. The attempt is to make it appear that I am unwilling to have a fair expression of the whigs of the District upon our respective claims. Now, nothing can be more false in fact; and if Genl. Hardin, had chosen, to furnish his friend with my written reason for declining that part of his plan; and that friend had chosen to publish that reason , instead of his own construction of the act, the falsehood of his insinuation would have been most apparant. That written reason was as follows, towit: ``As to your proposals that a poll shall be opened in every precinct, and that the whole shall take place on the same day, I do not personally object. They seem to me to not be unfair; and I forbear to join in proposing them, only because I rather choose to leave the decision in each county, to the whigs of the county, to be made as their own judgment and convenience may dictate.''  I send you this as a weapon with which to demolish, what I can not but regard as a mean insinuation against me. You may use it as you please; I prefer however that you should show it to some of our friends, and not publish it, unless in your judgment it becomes rather urgently necessary. The reason I want to keep all points of controversy out of the papers, so far as possible, is, that it will be just all we can do , to keep out of a quarrel---and I am resolved to do my part to keep peace. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnston
Dear Johnston: Springfield, Ills., Feb. 24, 1846.
Feeling a little poetic this evening, I have concluded to redeem my promise this evening by sending you the piece you expressed the wish to have.  You find it enclosed. I wish I could think of something else to say; but I believe I can not. By the way, how would you like to see a piece of poetry of my own making? I have a piece that is almost done, but I find a deal of trouble to finish it. Give my respects to Mr. Williams,  and have him, together with yourself, to understand, that if there is any thing I can do, in connection with your business in the courts, I shall take pleasure in doing it, upon notice. Yours forever, A. LINCOLN.

``My Childhood-Home I See Again''
[February 25?] 1846
My childhood-home I see again, And gladden with the view; And still as mem'ries crowd my brain, There's sadness in it too. O memory! thou mid-way world 'Twixt Earth and Paradise, Where things decayed, and loved ones lost In dreamy shadows rise. And freed from all that's gross or vile, Seem hallowed, pure, and bright, Like scenes in some enchanted isle, All bathed in liquid light. As distant mountains please the eye, When twilight chases day--- As bugle-tones, that, passing by, In distance die away--- As leaving some grand water-fall We ling'ring, list it's roar, So memory will hallow all We've known, but know no more. Now twenty years have passed away, Since here I bid farewell To woods, and fields, and scenes of play And school-mates loved so well. Where many were, how few remain Of old familiar things! But seeing these to mind again The lost and absent brings. The friends I left that parting day--- How changed, as time has sped! Young childhood grown, strong manhood grey, And half of all are dead. I hear the lone survivors tell How nought from death could save, Till every sound appears a knell, And every spot a grave. I range the fields with pensive tread, And pace the hollow rooms; And feel (companions of the dead) I'm living in the tombs. A[nd] here's an object more of dread, Than ought the grave contains--- A human-form, with reason fled, While wretched life remains. Poor Matthew! Once of genius bright,--- A fortune-favored child--- Now locked for aye, in mental night, A haggard mad-man wild. Poor Matthew! I have ne'er forgot When first with maddened will, Yourself you maimed, your father fought, And mother strove to kill; And terror spread, and neighbours ran, Your dang'rous strength to bind; And soon a howling crazy man, Your limbs were fast confined. How then you writhed and shrieked aloud, Your bones and sinnews bared; And fiendish on the gaping crowd, With burning eye-balls glared. And begged, and swore, and wept, and prayed, With maniac laughter joined--- How fearful are the signs displayed, By pangs that kill the mind! And when at length, tho' drear and long, Time soothed your fiercer woes--- How plaintively your mournful song, Upon the still night rose. I've heard it oft, as if I dreamed, Far-distant, sweet, and lone; The funeral dirge it ever seemed Of reason dead and gone. To drink it's strains, I've stole away, All silently and still, Ere yet the rising god of day Had streaked the Eastern hill. Air held his breath; the trees all still Seemed sorr'wing angels round. Their swelling tears in dew-drops fell Upon the list'ning ground. But this is past, and nought remains That raised you o'er the brute. Your mad'ning shrieks and soothing strains Are like forever mute. Now fare thee well: more thou the cause Than subject now of woe. All mental pangs, but time's kind laws, Hast lost the power to know. And  now away to seek some scene Less painful than the last--- With less of horror mingled in The present and the past. The very spot where grew the bread That formed my bones, I see. How strange, old field, on thee to tread, And feel I'm part of thee!

To Samuel D. Marshall
Dear Sam: Springfield March 3- 1846
I herewith send you the draft of a plea for our case. By consultation with Judge Logan, I draw it in the form I do, to compel Lane, in order to get round it, to reply that the case has been brought to, and reversed & remanded by the Supreme court, upon his doing which, you join issue with him, and that will compel him to pay the cost in the Supreme court in order to get the Record to prove his replication with. If I were to set out the whole facts in a plea in abatement, we should have to pay the Supreme court cost, in order to get the record to prove the plea with. This we wish to avoid. This, that I send, is a plea in bar. You will, of course, put in all and all manner, of other pleas in bar---particularly as to lapse of time. Yours, as ever--- A. LINCOLN Dorman & wife ads Lane, admr. &c} Petition to sell real estate--- And the said defendants come and defend, when, where &c. and say, that the said Petitioner to have and maintain his petition, or to have the prayer thereof granted, by said court, ought not, because they say, that heretofore towit, on the day of A.D. the said petitioner filed his petition in this court, against these defendants, praying an order for the sale of the identical same land, for the purpose of paying the identical same debt, as in the petition herein; and that such proceedings were had on that petition, that at the term of said court, the final order was made by said court, directing the sale of said land, for the object in that petition stated---and this the said defendants are ready to verify; wherefore they pray judgment &c. MARSHALL p.d.

The Trailor Murder Case
April 15, 1846
REMARKABLE CASE OF ARREST FOR MURDER. In the year 1841,  there resided, at different points in the State of Illinois, three brothers by the name of Trailor. Their Christian names were William, Henry and Archibald. Archibald resided at Springfield, then as now the Seat of Government of the State. He was a sober, retiring and industrious man, of about thirty years of age; a carpenter by trade, and a bachelor, boarding with his partner in business---a Mr. Myers. Henry, a year or two older, was a man of like retiring and industrious habits; had a family and resided with it on a farm at Clary's Grove, about twenty miles distant from Springfield in a North-westerly direction. William, still older, and with similar habits, resided on a farm in Warren county, distant from Springfield something more than a hundred miles in the same North-westerly direction. He was a widower, with several children. In the neighborhood of William's residence, there was, and had been for several years, a man by the name of Fisher, who was somewhat above the age of fifty; had no family, and no settled home; but who boarded and lodged a while here, and a while there, with the persons for whom he did little jobs of work. His habits were remarkably economical, so that an impression got about that he had accumulated a considerable amount of money. In the latter part of May in the year mentioned, William formed the purpose of visiting his brothers at Clary's Grove, and Springfield; and Fisher, at the time having his temporary residence at his house, resolved to accompany him. They set out together in a buggy with a single horse. On Sunday Evening they reached Henry's residence, and staid over night. On Monday Morning, being the first Monday of June, they started on to Springfield, Henry accompanying them on horse back. They reached town about noon, met Archibald, went with him to his boarding house, and there took up their lodgings for the time they should remain. After dinner, the three Trailors and Fisher left the boarding house in company, for the avowed purpose of spending the evening together in looking about the town. At supper, the Trailors had all returned, but Fisher was missing, and some inquiry was made about him. After supper, the Trailors went out professedly in search of him. One by one they returned, the last coming in after late tea time, and each stating that he had been unable to discover any thing of Fisher. The next day, both before and after breakfast, they went professedly in search again, and returned at noon, still unsuccessful. Dinner again being had, William and Henry expressed a determination to give up the search and start for their homes. This was remonstrated against by some of the boarders about the house, on the ground that Fisher was somewhere in the vicinity, and would be left without any conveyance, as he and William had come in the same buggy. The remonstrance was disregarded, and they departed for their homes respectively. Up to this time, the knowledge of Fisher's mysterious disappearance, had spread very little beyond the few boarders at Myers', and excited no considerable interest. After the lapse of three or four days, Henry returned to Springfield, for the ostensible purpose of making further search for Fisher. Procuring some of the boarders, he, together with them and Archibald, spent another day in ineffectual search, when it was again abandoned, and he returned home. No general interest was yet excited. On the Friday, week after Fisher's disappearance, the Postmaster at Springfield received a letter from the Postmaster nearest William's residence in Warren county, stating that William had returned home without Fisher, and was saying, rather boastfully, that Fisher was dead, and had willed him his money, and that he had got about fifteen hundred dollars by it. The letter further stated that William's story and conduct seemed strange; and desired the Postmaster at Springfield to ascertain and write what was the truth in the matter. The Postmaster at Springfield made the letter public, and at once, excitement became universal and intense. Springfield, at that time had a population of about 3500, with a city organization. The Attorney General of the State resided there. A purpose was forthwith formed to ferret out the mystery, in putting which into execution, the Mayor of the city, and the Attorney General took the lead. To make search for, and, if possible, find the body of the man supposed to be murdered, was resolved on as the first step. In pursuance of this, men were formed into large parties, and marched abreast, in all directions, so as to let no inch of ground in the vicinity, remain unsearched. Examinations were made of cellars, wells, and pits of all descriptions, where it was thought possible the body might be concealed. All the fresh, or tolerably fresh graves at the grave-yard were pried into, and dead horses and dead dogs were disintered, where, in some instances, they had been buried by their partial masters. This search, as has appeared, commenced on Friday. It continued until Saturday afternoon without success, when it was determined to dispatch officers to arrest William and Henry at their residences respectively. The officers started on Sunday Morning, meanwhile, the search for the body was continued, and rumors got afloat of the Trailors having passed, at different times and places, several gold pieces, which were readily supposed to have belonged to Fisher. On Monday, the officers sent for Henry, having arrested him, arrived with him. The Mayor and Attorney Gen'l took charge of him, and set their wits to work to elicit a discovery from him. He denied, and denied, and persisted in denying. They still plied him in every conceivable way, till Wednesday, when, protesting his own innocence, he stated that his brothers, William and Archibald had murdered Fisher; that they had killed him, without his (Henry's) knowledge at the time, and made a temporary concealment of his body; that immediately preceding his and William's departure from Springfield for home, on Tuesday, the day after Fisher's disappearance, William and Archibald communicated the fact to him, and engaged his assistance in making a permanent concealment of the body; that at the time he and William left professedly for home, they did not take the road directly, but meandering their way through the streets, entered the woods at the North West of the city, two or three hundred yards to the right of where the road where they should have travelled entered them; that penetrating the woods some few hundred yards, they halted and Archibald came a somewhat different route, on foot, and joined them; that William and Archibald then stationed him (Henry) on an old and disused road that ran near by, as a sentinel, to give warning of the approach of any intruder; that William and Archibald then removed the buggy to the edge of a dense brush thicket, about forty yards distant from his (Henry's) position, where, leaving the buggy, they entered the thicket, and in a few minutes returned with the body and placed it in the buggy; that from his station, he could and did distinctly see that the object placed in the buggy was a dead man, of the general appearance and size of Fisher; that William and Archibald then moved off with the buggy in the direction of Hickox's mill pond, and after an absence of half an hour returned, saying they had put him in a safe place; that Archibald then left for town, and he and William found their way to the road, and made for their homes. At this disclosure, all lingering credulity was broken down, and excitement rose to an almost inconceivable height. Up to this time, the well known character of Archibald had repelled and put down all suspicions as to him. Till then, those who were ready to swear that a murder had been committed, were almost as confident that Archibald had had no part in it. But now, he was seized and thrown into jail; and, indeed, his personal security rendered it by no means objectionable to him. And now came the search for the brush thicket, and the search of the mill pond. The thicket was found, and the buggy tracks at the point indicated. At a point within the thicket the signs of a struggle were discovered, and a trail from thence to the buggy track was traced. In attempting to follow the track of the buggy from the thicket, it was found to proceed in the direction of the mill pond, but could not be traced all the way. At the pond, however, it was found that a buggy had been backed down to, and partially into the water's edge. Search was now to be made in the pond; and it was made in every imaginable way. Hundreds and hundreds were engaged in raking, fishing, and draining. After much fruitless effort in this way, on Thursday Morning, the mill dam was cut down, and the water of the pond partially drawn off, and the same processes of search again gone through with. About noon of this day, the officer sent for William, returned having him in custody; and a man calling himself Dr. Gilmore, came in company with them. It seems that the officer arrested William at his own house early in the day on Tuesday, and started to Springfield with him; that after dark awhile, they reached Lewiston in Fulton county, where they stopped for the night; that late in the night this Dr. Gilmore arrived, stating that Fisher was alive at his house; and that he had followed on to give the information, so that William might be released without further trouble; that the officer, distrusting Dr. Gilmore, refused to release William, but brought him on to Springfield, and the Dr. accompanied them. On reaching Springfield, the Dr. re-asserted that Fisher was alive, and at his house. At this the multitude for a time, were utterly confounded. Gilmore's story was communicated to Henry Trailor, who, without faltering, reaffirmed his own story about Fisher's murder. Henry's adherence to his own story was communicated to the crowd, and at once the idea started, and became nearly, if not quite universal that Gilmore was a confederate of the Trailors, and had invented the tale he was telling, to secure their release and escape. Excitement was again at its zenith. About 3 o'clock the same evening, Myers, Archibald's partner, started with a two horse carriage, for the purpose of ascertaining whether Fisher was alive, as stated by Gilmore, and if so, of bringing him back to Springfield with him. On Friday a legal examination was gone into before two Justices, on the charge of murder against William and Archibald. Henry was introduced as a witness by the prosecution, and on oath, re-affirmed his statements, as heretofore detailed; and, at the end of which, he bore a thorough and rigid cross-examination without faltering or exposure. The prosecution also proved by a respectable lady, that on the Monday evening of Fisher's disappearance, she saw Archibald whom she well knew, and another man whom she did not then know, but whom she believed at the time of testifying to be William, (then present;) and still another, answering the description of Fisher, all enter the timber at the North West of town, (the point indicated by Henry,) and after one or two hours, saw William and Archibald return without Fisher. Several other witnesses testified, that on Tuesday, at the time William and Henry professedly gave up the search for Fisher's body and started for home, they did not take the road directly, but did go into the woods as stated by Henry. By others also, it was proved, that since Fisher's disappearance, William and Archibald had passed rather an unusual number of gold pieces. The statements heretofore made about the thicket, the signs of a struggle, the buggy tracks, &c., were fully proven by numerous witnesses. At this the prosecution rested. Dr. Gilmore was then introduced by the defendants. He stated that he resided in Warren county about seven miles distant from William's residence; that on the morning of William's arrest, he was out from home and heard of the arrest, and of its being on a charge of the murder of Fisher; that on returning to his own house, he found Fisher there; that Fisher was in very feeble health, and could give no rational account as to where he had been during his absence; that he (Gilmore) then started in pursuit of the officer as before stated, and that he should have taken Fisher with him only that the state of his health did not permit. Gilmore also stated that he had known Fisher for several years, and that he had understood he was subject to temporary derangement of mind, owing to an injury about his head received in early life. There was about Dr. Gilmore so much of the air and manner of truth, that his statement prevailed in the minds of the audience and of the court, and the Trailors were discharged; although they attempted no explanation of the circumstances proven by the other witnesses. On the next Monday, Myers arrived in Springfield, bringing with him the now famed Fisher, in full life and proper person. Thus ended this strange affair; and while it is readily conceived that a writer of novels could bring a story to a more perfect climax, it may well be doubted, whether a stranger affair ever really occurred. Much of the matter remains in mystery to this day. The going into the woods with Fisher, and returning without him, by the Trailors; their going into the woods at the same place the next day, after they professed to have given up the search; the signs of a struggle in the thicket, the buggy tracks at the edge of it; and the location of the thicket and the signs about it, corresponding precisely with Henry's story, are circumstances that have never been explained. William and Archibald have both died since---William in less than a year, and Archibald in about two years after the supposed murder. Henry is still living, but never speaks of the subject. It is not the object of the writer of this, to enter into the many curious speculations that might be indulged upon the facts of this narrative; yet he can scarcely forbear a remark upon what would, almost certainly have been the fate of William and Archibald, had Fisher not been found alive. It seems he had wandered away in mental derangement, and, had he died in this condition, and his body been found in the vicinity, it is difficult to conceive what could have saved the Trailors from the consequence of having murdered him. Or, if he had died, and his body never found, the case against them, would have been quite as bad, for, although it is a principle of law that a conviction for murder shall not be had, unless the body of the deceased be discovered, it is to be remembered, that Henry testified he saw Fisher's dead body. 

To Andrew Johnston
Tremont, April 18, 1846.
Friend Johnston: Your letter, written some six weeks since,  was received in due course, and also the paper with the parody. It is true, as suggested it might be, that I have never seen Poe's ``Raven'';  and I very well know that a parody is almost entirely dependent for its interest upon the reader's acquaintance with the original. Still there is enough in the polecat, self-considered, to afford one several hearty laughs. I think four or five of the last stanzas are decidedly funny, particularly where Jeremiah ``scrubbed and washed, and prayed and fasted.'' I have not your letter now before me; but, from memory, I think you ask me who is the author of the piece I sent you,  and that you do so ask as to indicate a slight suspicion that I myself am the author. Beyond all question, I am not the author. I would give all I am worth, and go in debt, to be able to write so fine a piece as I think that is. Neither do I know who is the author. I met it in a straggling form in a newspaper last summer, and I remember to have seen it once before, about fifteen years ago, and this is all I know about it. The piece of poetry of my own which I alluded to, I was led to write under the following circumstances. In the fall of 1844, thinking I might aid some to carry the State of Indiana for Mr. Clay, I went into the neighborhood in that State in which I was raised,  where my mother and only sister were buried, and from which I had been absent about fifteen years. That part of the country is, within itself, as unpoetical as any spot of the earth; but still, seeing it and its objects and inhabitants aroused feelings in me which were certainly poetry; though whether my expression of those feelings is poetry is quite another question. When I got to writing, the change of subjects divided the thing into four little divisions or cantos, the first only of which I send you now and may send the others hereafter. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN. My childhood's home I see again,  And sadden with the view; And still, as memory crowds my brain, There's pleasure in it too. O Memory! thou midway world 'Twixt earth and paradise, Where things decayed and loved ones lost In dreamy shadows rise, And, freed from all that's earthly vile, Seem hallowed, pure, and bright, Like scenes in some enchanted isle All bathed in liquid light. As dusky mountains please the eye When twilight chases day; As bugle-notes that, passing by, In distance die away; As leaving some grand waterfall, We, lingering, list its roar--- So memory will hallow all We've known, but know no more. Near twenty years have passed away Since here I bid farewell To woods and fields, and scenes of play, And playmates loved so well. Where many were, but few remain Of old familiar things; But seeing them, to mind again The lost and absent brings. The friends I left that parting day, How changed, as time has sped! Young childhood grown, strong manhood gray, And half of all are dead. I hear the loved survivors tell How nought from death could save, Till every sound appears a knell, And every spot a grave. I range the fields with pensive tread, And pace the hollow rooms, And feel (companion of the dead) I'm living in the tombs.

To Isaac Williams
Friend Williams: Springfield, April 24th. 1846
When I saw you at Washington, I understood that it might be inconvenient for you to attend the Petersburg convention.  I have come a little more anxious since I saw you, that the convention shall be full; and I write this to let you know that if it is inconvenient for you to attend, our friend, B. F. James, will willingly go as a substitute for you. Please be sure to attend, `` or send a hand '' Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James Berdan
Jas. Berdan, Esqr. Springfield, Dear Sir: April 26th 1846
I thank you for the promptness with which you answered my letter written from Bloomington.  I also thank you for the frankness with which you comment upon a certain part of my letter; because that comment affords me an oppertunity of trying to express myself better than I did before, seeing, as I do, that in that part of my letter, you have not understood me as I intended to be understood. In speaking of the `` dissatisfaction of men who yet mean to do no wrong &c.'' I meant no special application of what I said, to the whigs of Morgan, or of Morgan & Scott. I only had in my mind the fact, that previous to Genl. Hardin's withdrawal, some of his friends and some of mine, had become a little warm; and I felt, and meant to say, that for them now to meet face to face and converse together, was the best way to efface any remnant of unpleasant feeling, if any such existed. I did not suppose, that Genl. Hardin's friends were in any greater need of having their feelings corrected than mine were. Since I saw you at Jacksonville, I have had no more suspicion of the whigs of Morgan than of those of any other part of the District. I write this only to try to remove any impression that I distrust, you & the other whigs of your county.  Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James Berdan
Jas. Berdan Esqr. Springfield, Dear Sir: May 7th. 1846
It is a matter of high moral obligation, if not of necessity, for me to attend the Coles & Edgar courts. I have some cases in both of them, in which the parties have my promise, and are depending upon me. The court commences in Coles on the second monday, and in Edgar on the third. Your court in Morgan commences on the fourth monday; and it is my purpose to be with you then, and make a speech. I mention the Coles & Edgar courts, in order, that if I should not reach Jacksonville at the time named, you may understand the reason why. I do not, however, think there is much danger of my being detained; as I shall go with a purpose not to be, and consequently shall engage in no new cases that might delay me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John J. Hardin
Dear Hardin: Springfield, May 29th. 1846
Dr. F. A. McNeil, is desirous of going the campaign to Mexico, as a surgeon,  and he thinks that you, more probably than any one else, may have the power to give him the place. If it shall turn out that you hold the power, and can, consistantly with the claims of others, give him the appointment, it would very much gratify many of us here, and dissatisfy none. We regard him as a very sensible, and very clever man; and an excellent physician & surgeon. Genl. Covell  has just arrived here direct from Washington. I infer from some things he says, that some Loco foco rascality is in contemplation in relation to officering the army. He says that Shields, as well as Semple, is coming on, and doubtless he came on himself with his eye upon a military office. He says, moreover, that a supplemental bill, to the army bill, had been introduced into one branch of congress, authorizing the President to appoint two Majors general, and four Brigadiers. This, in connection, with his expressions of doubt, as to whether Genl. Scott, will proceed to the seat of war, induces me to think they even contemplate placing these new made heroes over the heads of Scott, Gaines, Taylor & others. You will understand, while I do not, whether, by the organization of the army, this is possible. If it is possible , it is, in my opinion, decidedly probable . Let these conjectures of mine be confidential. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

Speech at Lacon, Illinois
July 18, 1846
However, there was a respectable gathering of the citizens of our village, and Mr. Lincoln gave us a good speech. The Tariff was the principal subject, with which he showed himself to be thoroughly acquainted. In a most logical, argumentative effort, he demonstrated the necessity of a discriminating tariff, and the excellence of that adopted by the whig congress of 1842; and also that the consumer does not usually pay the tariff, but the manufacturer and importer. Mr. L. closed with some general observations on the Mexican war, annexation of Texas, and the Oregon question.

Handbill Replying to Charges of Infidelity
July 31, 1846
To the Voters of the Seventh Congressional District. FELLOW CITIZENS: A charge having got into circulation in some of the neighborhoods of this District, in substance that I am an open scoffer at Christianity,  I have by the advice of some friends concluded to notice the subject in this form. That I am not a member of any Christian Church, is true; but I have never denied the truth of the Scriptures; and I have never spoken with intentional disrespect of religion in general, or of any denomination of Christians in particular. It is true that in early life I was inclined to believe in what I understand is called the ``Doctrine of Necessity''---that is, that the human mind is impelled to action, or held in rest by some power, over which the mind itself has no control; and I have sometimes (with one, two or three, but never publicly) tried to maintain this opinion in argument. The habit of arguing thus however, I have, entirely left off for more than five years. And I add here, I have always understood this same opinion to be held by several of the Christian denominations. The foregoing, is the whole truth, briefly stated, in relation to myself, upon this subject. I do not think I could myself, be brought to support a man for office, whom I knew to be an open enemy of, and scoffer at, religion. Leaving the higher matter of eternal consequences, between him and his Maker, I still do not think any man has the right thus to insult the feelings, and injure the morals, of the community in which he may live. If, then, I was guilty of such conduct, I should blame no man who should condemn me for it; but I do blame those, whoever they may be, who falsely put such a charge in circulation against me. July 31, 1846. A. LINCOLN.

To Allen N. Ford
Springfield, August 11th, 1846.
Mr. Ford:---I see in your paper of the 8th inst. a communication in relation to myself, of which it is perhaps expected of me to take some notice.  Shortly before starting on my tour through yours, and the other Northern counties of the District, I was informed by letter from Jacksonville that Mr. Cartwright was whispering the charge of infidelity against me in that quarter. I at once wrote a contradiction of it, and sent it to my friends there, with the request that they should publish it or not, as in their discretion they might think proper, having in view the extent of the circulation of the charge, as also the extent of credence it might be receiving. They did not publish it. After my return from your part of the District, I was informed that he had been putting the same charge in circulation against me in some of the neighborhoods in our own, and one or two of the adjoining counties.  I believe nine persons out of ten had not heard the charge at all; and, in a word, its extent of circulation was just such as to make a public notice of it appear uncalled for; while it was not entirely safe to leave it unnoticed. After some reflection, I published the little hand-bill,  herewith enclosed, and sent it to the neighborhoods above referred to. I have little doubt now, that to make the same charge---to slyly sow the seed in select spots---was the chief object of his mission through your part of the District, at a time when he knew I could not contradict him, either in person or by letter before the election. And, from the election returns in your county, being so different from what they are in parts where Mr. Cartwright and I are both well known, I incline to the belief that he has succeeded in deceiving some honest men there.  As to Mr. Woodward, ``our worthy commissioner from Henry,'' spoken of by your correspondent, I must say it is a little singular that he should know so much about me, while, if I ever saw him , or heard of him, save in the communication in your paper, I have forgotten it. If Mr. Woodward has given such assurance of my character as your correspondent asserts, I can still suppose him to be a worthy man; he may have believed what he said; but there is, even in that charitable view of his case, one lesson in morals which he might, not without profit, learn of even me---and that is, never to add the weight of his character to a charge against his fellow man, without knowing it to be true. I believe it is an established maxim in morals that he who makes an assertion without knowing whether it is true or false, is guilty of falsehood; and the accidental truth of the assertion, does not justify or excuse him. This maxim ought to be particularly held in view, when we contemplate an attack upon the reputation of our neighbor. I suspect it will turn out that Mr. Woodward got his information in relation to me, from Mr. Cartwright; and I here aver, that he, Cartwright, never heard me utter a word in any way indicating my opinions on religious matters, in his life. It is my wish that you give this letter, together with the accompanying hand-bill, a place in your paper.  Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew Johnston
Friend Johns[t]on:  Springfield, Sept. 6th. 1846
You remember when I wrote you from Tremont last spring,  sending you a little canto of what I called poetry, I promised to bore you with another some time. I now fulfil the promise. The subject of the present one is an insane man. His name is Matthew Gentry. He is three years older than I, and when we were boys we went to school together. He was rather a bright lad, and the son of the rich man of our very poor neighbourhood. At the age of nineteen he unaccountably became furiously mad, from which condition he gradually settled down into harmless insanity. When, as I told you in my other letter I visited my old home in the fall of 1844, I found him still lingering in this wretched condition. In my poetizing mood I could not forget the impressions his case made upon me. Here is the result---  But here's an object more of dread Than ought the grave contains--- A human form with reason fled, While wretched life remains. Poor Matthew! Once of genius bright, A fortune-favored child--- Now locked for aye, in mental night, A haggard mad-man wild. Poor Matthew! I have ne'er forgot, When first, with maddened will, Yourself you maimed, your father fought, And mother strove to kill; When terror spread, and neighbours ran, Your dange'rous strength to bind; And soon, a howling crazy man Your limbs were fast confined. How then you strove and shrieked aloud, Your bones and sinews bared; And fiendish on the gazing crowd, With burning eye-balls glared--- And begged, and swore, and wept and prayed With maniac laugh [ter?] joined--- How fearful were those signs displayed By pangs that killed thy mind! And when at length, tho' drear and long, Time soothed thy fiercer woes, How plaintively thy mournful song Upon the still night rose. I've heard it oft, as if I dreamed, Far distant, sweet, and lone--- The funeral dirge, it ever seemed Of reason dead and gone. To drink it's strains, I've stole away, All stealthily and still, Ere yet the rising God of day Had streaked the Eastern hill. Air held his breath; trees, with the spell, Seemed sorrowing angels round, Whose swelling tears in dew-drops fell Upon the listening ground. But this is past; and nought remains, That raised thee o'er the brute. Thy piercing shrieks, and soothing strains, Are like, forever mute. Now fare thee well---more thou the cause , Than subject now of woe. All mental pangs, by time's kind laws, Hast lost the power to know. O death!  Thou awe-inspiring prince, That keepst the world in fear; Why dost thou tear more blest ones hence, And leave him ling'ring here? If I should ever send another, the subject will be a ``Bear hunt.'' Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

The Bear Hunt
[September 6, 1846?]
A wild-bear chace, didst never see? Then hast thou lived in vain. Thy richest bump of glorious glee, Lies desert in thy brain. When first my father settled here, 'Twas then the frontier line: The panther's scream, filled night with fear And bears preyed on the swine. But wo for Bruin's short lived fun, When rose the squealing cry; Now man and horse, with dog and gun, For vengeance, at him fly. A sound of danger strikes his ear; He gives the breeze a snuff: Away he bounds, with little fear, And seeks the tangled rough . On press his foes, and reach the ground, Where's left his half munched meal; The dogs, in circles, scent around, And find his fresh made trail. With instant cry, away they dash, And men as fast pursue; O'er logs they leap, through water splash, And shout the brisk halloo. Now to elude the eager pack, Bear shuns the open ground; Th[r]ough matted vines, he shapes his track And runs it, round and round. The tall fleet cur, with deep-mouthed voice, Now speeds him, as the wind; While half-grown pup, and short-legged fice, Are yelping far behind. And fresh recruits are dropping in To join the merry corps: With yelp and yell,---a mingled din--- The woods are in a roar. And round, and round the chace now goes, The world's alive with fun; Nick Carter's horse, his rider throws, And more, Hill drops his gun. Now sorely pressed, bear glances back, And lolls his tired tongue; When as, to force him from his track, An ambush on him sprung. Across the glade he sweeps for flight, And fully is in view. The dogs, new-fired, by the sight, Their cry, and speed, renew. The foremost ones, now reach his rear, He turns, they dash away; And circling now, the wrathful bear, They have him full at bay. At top of speed, the horse-men come, All screaming in a row. ``Whoop! Take him Tiger. Seize him Drum.'' Bang,---bang---the rifles go. And furious now, the dogs he tears, And crushes in his ire. Wheels right and left, and upward rears, With eyes of burning fire. But leaden death is at his heart, Vain all the strength he plies. And, spouting blood from every part, He reels, and sinks, and dies. And now a dinsome clamor rose, 'Bout who should have his skin; Who first draws blood, each hunter knows, This prize must always win. But who did this, and how to trace What's true from what's a lie, Like lawyers, in a murder case They stoutly argufy . Aforesaid fice, of blustering mood, Behind, and quite forgot, Just now emerging from the wood, Arrives upon the spot. With grinning teeth, and up-turned hair--- Brim full of spunk and wrath, He growls, and seizes on dead bear, And shakes for life and death. And swells as if his skin would tear, And growls and shakes again; And swears, as plain as dog can swear, That he has won the skin. Conceited whelp! we laugh at thee--- Nor mind, that not a few Of pompous, two-legged dogs there be, Conceited quite as you.

To William Brown
Dear Judge Springfield, Octr. 22. 1846
I have just returned from Coles, where I saw Ficklin,  who handed me a note on Anthony Thornton  and somebody else, with $25--- in money, which he directed me to pass over to you upon presentation of his receipt (for the note I suppose). I want to get the matter off of my hands. What shall be done about it? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joshua F. Speed
Dear Speed: Springfield, Octr. 22nd. 1846
Owing to my absence,  yours of the 10th. Inst. was not received until yesterday. Since then I have been devoting myself to arive [ sic ] at a correct conclusion upon your matter of business. It may be that you do not precisely understand the nature and result of the suit against you and Bell's estate. It is a chancery suit, and has been brought to a final decree, in which, you are treated as a nominal party only. The decree is, that Bell's administrator pay the Nelson Fry debt, out of the proceeds of Bell's half of the store.  So far, you are not injured; because you are released from the debt, without having paid any thing, and Hurst  is in no way left liable to you, because the debt he & Bell undertook to pay, is, or will be, paid without your paying it, or any part of it. The question, then, is, ``How are you injured?'' By diverting so much of the assets of Bell's estate, to the payment of the Fry debt, the general assets are lessened, and so, will pay a smaller dividend to general creditors; one of which creditors I suppose you are, in effect, as assignor of the note to W. P. Speed.  It incidentally enlarges your liability to W. P. Speed; and to that extent, you are injured. How much will this be? I think, $100- or $120- being the dividend of 25 or 30 per cent, that Hurst's half of the Fry debt, would would [ sic ] pay on the W. P. S. debt. Hurst's undertaking was, in effect, that he would pay the whole of the Fry debt, if Bell did not pay any part of it; but it was not his undertaking, that if Bell should pay the whole of it, he would refund the whole, so that Bell should be the better able to pay his other debts. You are not losing on the Fry debt, because that is, or will be paid; but your loss will be on the W. P. S. debt,---a debt that Hurst is under no obligation to indemnify you against. Hurst is bound to account to Bell's estate, for one half of the Fry debt; because he owed half, and Bell's estate pays all; and if, upon such accounting any thing is due the estate from Hurst, it will swell the estate, and so far enlarge the dividend to the W. P. S. debt. But when Bell's estate shall call Hurst to account, he will will [ sic ] I am informed show that the estate, after paying the whole of the Fry debt is still indebted to him. If so, not much, if any thing can come from that quarter---nothing, unless it can be so turned, as to compel him [to?] pay all he owes the estate, and take a dividend only, upon what the estate owes him. If you had paid the Fry debt yourself, you could then turn on Hurst and make him refund you; but this would only bring [you?] where you started from, excepting it would leave Bell's estate able to pay a larger dividend; and Hurst would then turn upon the estate to contribute one half, which would enlarge the indebtedness of the estate in the same proportion, and so reduce the dividend again. I believe the only thing that can be done for your advantage in the matter, is for Bell's administrator to call Hurst to account for one half the Fry debt, and then fight off, the best he can, Hurst's claim of indebtedness against the estate. I should be much pleased to see [you?] here again; but I must, in candour, say I do not perceive how your personal presence would do any good in the business matter. You, no doubt, assign the suspension of our correspondence to the true philosophical cause, though it must be confessed, by both of us, that this is rather a cold reason for allowing a friendship, such as ours, to die by degrees. I propose now, that, on the receipt of this, you shall be considered in my debt, and under obligation to pay soon, and that neither shall remain long in arrears hereafter. Are you agreed? Being elected to Congress, though I am very grateful to our friends, for having done it, has not pleased me as much as I expected. We have another boy, born the 10th. of March last.  He is very much such a child as Bob  was at his age---rather of a longer order. Bob is ``short and low,'' and, I expect, always will be. He talks very plainly---almost as plainly as any body. He is quite smart enough. I some times fear he is one of the little rare-ripe sort, that are smarter at about five than ever after. He has a great deal of that sort of mischief, that is the offspring of much animal spirits. Since I began this letter a messenger came to tell me, Bob was lost; but by the time I reached the house, his mother had found him, and had him whip[p]ed---and, by now, very likely he is run away again. Mary has read your letter, and wishes to be remembered to Mrs. S. and you, in which I most sincerely join her. As ever Yours--- A. LINCOLN

To Hezekiah M. Wead
Friend Wead: Springfield, Decr. 6th. 1846
Yours by the hand of Mr. Davidson  was duly received. I will have your declaration filed and rule taken to-morrow, according to Gunter .  Your case of Nicholas vs Herbert, stands on the Docket No. 57---assigned to no particular day for trial. If the opposite party will be ready to try it, as soon as the court will, my opinion is you may come right along. My recollection is, that I have never known the trial of a case in this court, delayed beyond the first week, where both parties were ready for trial. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Henry E. Dummer
Friend Dummer: Springfield, Feb. 8, 1847
Yours of the 3rd was duly received. I have procured Judge Lockwood's  part to be performed and now mail the record to St. Louis as you desired. I write you merely to relieve you of any anxiety as to the matter having in any way miscarried. Yours sincerely, A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnston
Springfield, February 25, 1847.
Dear Johnston: Yours of the 2d of December was duly delivered to me by Mr. Williams.  To say the least, I am not at all displeased with your proposal to publish the poetry, or doggerel, or whatever else it may be called, which I sent you. I consent that it may be done, together with the third canto, which I now send you.  Whether the prefatory remarks in my letter shall be published with the verses, I leave entirely to your discretion; but let names be suppressed by all means. I have not sufficient hope of the verses attracting any favorable notice to tempt me to risk being ridiculed for having written them. Why not drop into the paper, at the same time, the ``half dozen stanzas of your own''? Or if, for any reason, it suit your feelings better, send them to me, and I will take pleasure in putting them in the paper here. Family well, and nothing new. Yours sincerely, A. LINCOLN. Christie's 6/8/90

Resolutions Adopted at John J. Hardin Memorial Meeting
April 5, 1847
The Hon. Mr. Lincoln then explained the objects of the meeting in a few appropriate remarks, when he offered the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted: Resolved : That, while we sincerely rejoice at the signal triumph of the American arms at Buena Vista, and contemplate with the highest pride, the imperishable honor won by our Illinois brethren, upon that bloody field, it is with the deepest grief we have learned of the fall of the many brave and generous spirits there, and especially, of that of Col. J. J. HARDIN. Resolved : That William Pope, Mason Brayman, John Calhoun, Antrim Campbell and Geo. L. Huntington be a committee to correspond with the people, or committees of other counties, and especially with Col. Hardin's immediate neighbors at Jacksonville, on the subject embraced in these resolutions; and that said committee have power to fill vacancies, and to call subsequent meetings, when, in their judgment it becomes proper. Resolved : That the proceedings of this meeting be published in both the papers in this city.

Petition Concerning Jacob Hoffman
April [19?] 1847
To the Honorable Augustus C French Governor of the State of Illinois. The undersigned would respectfully represent, that at the April Term of the McLean county circuit court one Jacob Hoffman was indicted for the crime of Forgery. That to said indictment said Hoffman plead guilty, and was by the court sentenced to the Penitentiary for the term of one year. That they believe that this is the first offence of which said Hoffman has been guilty. They would further state that he has been confined in the Jail for the county of McLean for about five months. That he is yet quite a young man, and connected with a large and respectable, though poor family who [reside?] in Fulton county Illinois. That the Father of said Hoffman is an old, and infirm [man?] and that he and his family, have depended for subsistance to a considerable extent, upon the labour of said Jacob Hoffman. That in consideration of the premises they would humbly petition your Honor that the punishment may be remitted, and said Hoffman set at liberty, and as in duty bound your petitioners would ever pray &c

Petition for Pardon of Sigler H. Lester
May 19, 1847
To the Honorable the Governor of the State of Illinois--- Whereas Sigler H. Lester was, at the May Term 1847 of the Cumberland circuit court, by said court, convicted of an assault with intent to commit murder, and sentenced to confinement in the Penitentiary for the term of one year, and whereas there are circumstances, which in our opinion, render it proper, that the Executive clemency should be extended to him, therefore We, the undersigned, respectfully recommend that Your Excellency, grant a pardon of said offence to said Lester. May 19th. 1847.

To Orville H. Browning
Dear Browning: Springfield, June 24th. 1847.
Yours of the 19th. Inst. is received, and I have filed a plea for you, in the case of Moore vs Latourette. Dont fret yourself about the trouble you give me; when I get tired, I'll tell you. I am glad you sent this letter, because it reminds me to write you the result of your two cases of Moore vs Brown, & God knows who all, the charge of which you sent to Logan, and into which he drew me with him. We tried one of them, in which, after the plaintiff proved title, we offered the Auditors deed, as the first link of connected title and seven years possession, which was objected to, and the judges divided in opinion, which division is certified for the Supreme court. The other case stands over to abide &c. Indeed, indeed , I do not know what they are doing in the Convention.  It is considered as almost settled, that they will not prohibit Banks; that they will establish a poll tax; will restrict the number of members of both Houses of the Legislature to 100; will limit their per diem to $2 or 2.50- and make it still less after the first forty days of the session. So far as I have mentioned, I am pleased. Some other things I have fears for. I am not easy about the Courts . I am satisfied with them as they are; but shall not care much if the judges are made elective by the People, and their terms of office limited. I fear, however, something more; and, as I think, much worse than all this, towit ``A Puppy Court'' that is, a Judge in each county, with civil jurisdiction in all cases up to a thousand dollars, and criminal, in all cases not capital. ``A Migratory Supreme Court'' and Salaries so low as to exclude all respectable talent. From these, may God preserve us. As to what I, Baker,  and every body else are doing, I am preparing to go to the Chicago River & Harbor Convention.  Baker has gone to Alton, as is thought, to be Colonel of the Sixth Regiment, and every body is doing pretty much what every body is always doing. I hope this may find you well, and Mrs. Browning recovered from her hurt. I dont believe Mary & I can visit Quincy, although it would be very pleasant to do so. My Chicago trip and `` Several other gentlemen '' (Bob. & Ed)  are very much in the way of it. Our love to Mrs. Browning and yourself. A. LINCOLN

Open Letter on Springfield and Alton Railroad
June 30, 1847
To the People of Sangamon County : An effort is being made to build a Railroad from Springfield to Alton. A charter has been granted by the Legislature, and books are now open for subscriptions to the stock. The chief reliance for taking the stock must be on the Eastern capitalists; yet, as an inducement to them, we, here, must do something. We must stake something of our own in the enterprise, to convince them that we believe it will succeed, and to place ourselves between them and subsequent unfavorable legislation, which, it is supposed, they very much dread. The whole is a matter of pecuniary interest; and the proper question for us is, whether, with reference to the present and the future, and to direct and indirect results, it is our interest to subscribe. If it can be shown that it is, we hope few will refuse. The shares in the stock are one hundred dollars each. Whoever takes a share is required to advance five dollars on it, which will be returned to him, unless the whole stock is taken, so that the work may certainly go on. If the whole shall be taken, the fund created by the five dollar advances will be used to begin the work; and as it progresses, additional calls will be made until it is finished. It is believed it can be completed in about three years. Up to its completion, the shareholders will have lost the use of their money, from the times of the respective advances. The questions occur, ``What will the road be worth when completed?'' ``How will it pay for the use of the money---how return the principal?'' Many who have already subscribed, and who therefore, if they deceive others also deceive themselves, are satisfied that the road can be built for something less than seven hundred thousand dollars. No actual survey has been made; but a good engineer, well acquainted with the route, and the subject, estimates it at this. Now, if the nett income shall be seven or eight---say eight---per cent per annum upon this sum, in the aggregate $56,000, the stock will be very good; and the shareholder who does not wish to have money out at eight per cent. interest, can readily sell at par, or above it, and so have a return of his principal. But will the road nett $56,000 a year? Will it make repairs, bear expenses, and still leave this much? These are questions which no one can, beforehand, answer with precise accuracy. The more difficult it is to make a road at first, the more difficult it is to keep [it] in repair, and vice versa ; so that the expenses and cost of repairs of railroads, have been found very nearly uniform at about ten per cent. per annum on the capital expended in building them. This, on our road, would be $70,000 a year. Now, if we can insure a gross income of the $56,000 and the $70,000 together; that is, $126,000---all is safe. This gross income must, of course, depend upon the amount of business done upon the road. We suppose it is quite fair to assume that all the transportation now done, directly and indirectly, between Saint Louis and Springfield, together with its increase, will be done upon the road when completed. We learn it as an unquestionable fact, that the merchants of Springfield now pay, annually, for carrying goods from Saint Louis to Springfield, something more than $22,000. This being so, how much does the country produce, that pays for these goods, cost in carriage from Springfield to Saint Louis? Certainly more , in the same proportion as the produce weighs more than the goods. But what is this proportion? One of our largest dealers, who has, at our request, made an estimate, and has taken some pains to be accurate, assures us that the average of country produce is five times as heavy as the average of the articles in his business, in proportion to value. His business, too, is exclusively of dry goods , between which and produce the difference in weight, in proportion to value, is still greater. Another merchant tells us that a barrel of flour is quite equal in weight to a hundred dollars' worth of average dry goods articles. We suppose, then, we are far within bounds, in estimating that the transportation of produce from here to St. Louis costs five times as much as the transportation of goods from there here. This gives us $132,000 as the present annual cost of transportation of goods and produce between St. Louis and Springfield. And this does not include the trade of the villages of the county, nor of the counties above and adjoining; nor of the intermediate country; nor anything for the mail, nor for passengers. These must, on a moderate estimate, double the amount, swelling it to $264,000! Assuming this as the gross income, and it makes repairs, pays expenses, and leaves a nett sum of $194,000; being nearly 28 per cent. on the capital. This sum, however, is arrived at as the assumption that transportation is to remain as dear as it now is; while the chief reason for desiring the road is that transportation may be cheapened . Reduce, then, the cost of carriage to one third its present rates, and it still leaves more than nine per cent. as the profits of the stockholders. This the distant holder will be abundantly satisfied with; while the resident will have the same, and more than as much additional, in the cheapening what he buys, enhancing what he sells, and greatly increasing the value of his real property. Another important matter, already alluded to, is the certain and large increase of business which must occur on the line of the road; and this, whether the road shall or shall not be built; greater, however, if it shall. Increase of business would naturally follow, the building of a good road in any country; and this applies especially to this road, by the facts that the country of its line is unequalled in natural agricultural resources, is new, and only yet very partially brought into cultivation. Not one tenth of the land fitted for the plough has yet been subjected to it. Add the new fact, that the use of Indian corn has, at length, been successfully introduced into Europe, under circumstances that warrant the hope of its continuance, and the amount of means of transportation which the people of this country must need, is beyond calculation. Again: at no distant day, a railroad, connecting the Eastern cities with some point on the Mississippi, will surely be built. If we lie by till this be done, it may pass us in such a way as to do us harm rather than good; while, if we complete, or even begin, our road first, it will attract the other, and so become, not merely a local improvement, but a link in one of a great national character, retaining all its local benefits, and superadding many from its general connection. In view of the foregoing considerations, briefly stated, is it not the interest of us all to act , and to act now ; in this matter? It is encouraging, in a double aspect, to know that near a hundred thousand dollars of the stock has already been taken, by some four hundred farmers, mechanics, merchants, and members of all classes, resident in the counties of Madison, Jersey, Macoupin, Morgan, and Sangamon. It is encouraging, in the amount taken, and also in the evidence of confidence in the success of the undertaking, entertained by so great a number of men, well acquainted with the country through which the road is to pass. Committee : A. Lincoln, 	John T. Stuart, J. N. Brown, 	William Pickrell, John Calhoun, 	J. Bunn, B. C. Webster, 	John Williams, P. P. Enos; 	S. B. Opdycke. Springfield , June 30, 1847.

Bond for John M. Cabaniss
[August 5, 1847]
Know all men by these presents that We John M. Cabaniss as principal and E. T. Cabaniss and Z. P. Cabaniss, and A. Lincoln, James L. Hill as his Sureties all of the County of Sangamon and State of Illinois are held and firmly bound unto the County Commissioner of the County of Sangamon and their successors in office for the use of the People of the State of Illinois in the penal Sum of One Thousand Dollars lawful money of the United States for the payment of which will and truly to be made we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators jointly and firmly by these presents. Witness our hands and seals at Springfield this 5  th day of August A.D. . The Condition of the above obligation is Such that whereas the said John M. Cabaniss was on the second day of August A.D. 1847 Elected a Constable in and for Springfield District in said county for the Term of Two years from the said day of election. Now if the said John M. Cabaniss shall faithfully discharge the duties of his office of Constable and shall Justly and fairly account for and pay over all monies that may come to his hands under any process or otherwise by virtue of his office, Then this above obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue. In presence of J. M. CABANISS (seal) N. W. Matheny E. T. CABANISS (seal) Z. P. CABANISS (seal) JAMES H. HILL (seal) A. LINCOLN (seal)

Report on Alton and Springfield Railroad
August 5, 1847
ALTON AND SPRINGFIELD RAIL ROAD. ADDRESS OF THE COMMITTEE. At a meeting of the citizens of Sangamon County, the undersigned were appointed a committee to collect facts and report an address on the project of connecting Alton and Springfield by means of a Rail Road. A portion of the committee have examined the subject with great zeal and industry, and submit the following as the result of their labors: Constructing a rail road from Alton to Springfield, is viewed but as a link in a great chain of rail road communication which shall unite Boston and New York with the Mississippi. Whatever interest Illinois has in this great improvement, and whatever advantages this particular route through Illinois may possess, is necessarily connected with the proposed work from Alton, on the Mississippi, to Springfield. A rail road commencing from the Mississippi, and running through Springfield to the eastern boundary of the State, in the direction of Lafayette, was marked out many years ago in a system adopted by the State, and a million or more of dollars were expended upon it before it was abandoned. This route commenced at Quincy, on the Mississippi, and crossing the Illinois at Meredosia, extended through Springfield east to the State line. The work from the Illinois river to Springfield, a distance of fifty-seven miles, was completed by the State. More than two hundred thousand dollars were expended east of Springfield in the direction to Lafayette in Indiana. Since the abandonment of the Internal Improvement system by the State, several acts of incorporation have been passed by the legislature, the object of which was to secure to the people of the State, if possible, the construction of the most important of these works by individual enterprise and capital. These acts of incorporation have looked to no general plan, such as is now contemplated, and the great work of connecting the Mississippi with the eastern cities, through Indiana and other States, can now be commenced only by blending some two or three charters. Of these acts of incorporation, one was passed last winter to construct a rail road from Alton to Springfield. The route proposed in this act is from Alton through Carlinville, in Macoupin county, and New Berlin to Springfield, a distance of about eighty miles. The company is authorised to use fifteen miles of the grade already completed, or nearly so, by the State, from Alton in the direction to Carlinville, and fifteen miles of the Springfield and Meredosia rail road, from Springfield to New Berlin, under certain stipulations named in the law. The capital stock of the company is $500,000, and may be increased under the law to $1,000,000. In 1845 the legislature passed a law incorporating the Sangamon and Morgan rail road company with a capital of $1,000,000. This act required the company to purchase the road from Springfield to the Illinois river at a stipulated price before it could organize. No company was organized under this act, and at the late session of the legislature a law was passed authorizing the Governor to sell the road from Springfield to the Illinois river at public auction to the highest bidder. The purchaser or purchasers under this law were to be entitled to all the benefits of the act for the incorporation of the Sangamon and Morgan rail road company, and were to be held by this law to be the subscribers to the whole capital stock of said company of $1,000,000. A law was also passed at the late session, supplemental to the act incorporating the Sangamon and Morgan rail road company. By this supplemental act the company was authorized to construct the cross rail road east from Springfield to the Indiana State line, on the route previously located by the State, and all the materials, grade, and work done by the State east of Springfield, amounting in value to more than two hundred thousand dollars, were given to the company for that purpose. The capital stock of the company was also increased, $1,000.000. The road from Springfield to the Illinois river has been advertised and sold by the Governor, and the purchasers, N. H. Ridgley and others, have thus secured the benefits of the laws for the incorporation of the Sangamon and Morgan rail road company. A company is therefore organized for the construction of a rail road from the Illinois river to the line dividing the States of Illinois and Indiana; and for about eight thousand dollars, the sum given for the road from Springfield to the Illinois river, all the work on this route, which cost the State more than $1,000,000, is made available to the company. These advantages ought, by all means, in the course of a few years, to secure the completion of the road from Springfield to the line of Indiana. Thus the two or three acts of incorporation above alluded to, fully authorize, with an aggregate capital of $3,000,000, the construction of the great work, so far as Illinois is concerned, which proposes to connect the Mississippi with eastern cities by means of rail road. The citizens of Indiana are now actively engaged in doing whatever is necessary to forward the work in that State; and the proceedings of a meeting in Lafayette show that the proper measures are being taken to secure, so far as Indiana is concerned, the energetic prosecution of the work to completion. So far as the acts of the Illinois Legislature are concerned, but one difficulty presents itself. The road from Alton to Springfield passes for fifteen miles over the road from the Illinois river to Springfield. The Sangamon and Morgan company own the road from the Illinois river to Springfield, and such work as is done between Springfield and the Indiana line; and possesses, also, the sole right to complete the road from Springfield to the eastern line of the State. If the company had also the sole right of making the road from Springfield to Alton, no difficulty could possibly occur. But if the road from Alton to Springfield should fall into the hands of other individuals, then would they be compelled, under the laws, to use that portion of the road lying between New Berlin and Springfield, which belongs to the Sangamon and Morgan company. This might be embarrassing to the Alton and Springfield company, and could be fully obviated only by the Sangamon and Morgan company taking stock in the Alton and Springfield rail road, to the full and fair value of the portion of their road lying between Springfield and New Berlin. But the money which is to make the road from Alton to Springfield, and from Springfield to Lafayette, is principally to come from eastern capitalists. Boston and New York can, and probably will, furnish the funds necessary to connect those cities with the Mississippi river; and as the same interests will be blended in the prosecution of the work through its whole extent, so is it probable that the same interests will ultimately get possession of and control the entire work through this State. No eastern capitalist, therefore, will be likely to take stock in the Alton and Springfield rail road but with a view of its extension so as to form a complete connection between the eastern cities and the Mississippi river. In this view, the apparent difficulty between two works running over the same ground, as probably productive of disagreement between two companies, would ultimately disappear. In presenting, therefore, the Alton and Springfield rail road to the consideration of capitalists, as a distinct work, it will be understood as a matter of course, to be only the beginning of a great work, the construction of a single link in the great chain of improvement; and if we can show that this link can now be profitably undertaken, we apprehend that no existing obstacle, growing out of the laws of this State, will prevent such subscriptions of stock as will be necessary to the speedy commencement of the work. That the business of this country, its productions, its population, its demands, would justify the making a good rail road from Alton to Springfield, independent of its connection with a great chain of improvement, is the object of this committee reasonably to show. The distance from Alton to Springfield, by way of Carlinville and New Berlin, is about eighty miles. Of this distances, fifteen miles from Alton to Brighton, is graded. This fifteen miles embraces by very far, the heaviest grade on the whole route, passing over the bluffs of the Mississippi river to the table land. The expenditure by the State on this fifteen miles was very heavy, and though the law provides that the State shall receive a price to be estimated in State indebtedness and paid by the company, yet there can be no doubt that the legislature will, as in other cases, surrender the work done to the company without compensation. The State will find an ample inducement to do this in the advantages she will derive in the completion of the road. Fifteen miles of the road from Springfield to New Berlin, is completed. Deducting, therefore, thirty miles, but fifty remain to be graded. These 50 miles pass over a level prairie country, with a natural grade, almost fitting it for a rail road, and upon which the expenditure for grading would be very light. In the whole fifty miles there is but one place where the expenditure for grading would be considerable. This is the crossing of Macoupin creek. Here a considerable embankment with a bridge and cutting through the bluffs is required. The whole grade from Alton to New Berlin, could easily be contracted for a sum less than three thousand dollars per mile, and the whole sixty-five miles could be fully completed with a T rail, at a cost not exceeding ten thousand dollars per mile, or an aggregate cost of $650,000. (Locomotives, cars, engines-houses, depots and all other fixtures, together with the right of way, would not probably exceed the sum of $150,000---making the total cost of the work $800,000.) The road proposed would either pass through or drain the products from the counties of Madison, Macoupin, Sangamon, Logan, Macon, DeWitt, Christian and Morgan. As Madison is situated on the Mississippi river, and will probably do the greater portion of its business independent of the rail road, it is entirely left out of the following calculations, though very much of the business of the parts remote from the river must be done on the road. One-third of Morgan county is also deducted from the estimates, it being presumed that at least one-third of its business will be done independent of the road in the direction of the Illinois river. The population of the eight counties, Madison, Macoupin, Sangamon, Logan, Macon, DeWitt, Christian and Morgan, in 1840, was 69,019, and in 1845, was 75,609. By the same ratio of increase, the population of these counties is estimated in 1850 at 96,526. Deducting the estimated population of Madison and one-third of Morgan, leaves the estimated population of the counties, whose business will all be done on the rail road, in 1850, at 67,073. The productions of the above counties, except Madison, in 1840, were as follows: Horse and Mules, ..... 	23,383 Neat Cattle, ..... 	69,086 Swine, ..... 	196,679 Bushels of Wheat, ..... 	245,890 do of Indian Corn, ..... 	3,582,659 Estimating the increase of production from 1840 to '45, and from 1845 to '50, in the proportion to the increase of population, we have the production of 1845 as follows: Horses and Mules, ..... 	26,866 Neat Cattle, ..... 	80,150 Swine, ..... 	237,777 Bushels of Wheat, ..... 	284,334 do of Indian Corn, ..... 	4,231,455 And for 1850, we have the following results: Horses and Mules, ..... 	34,599 Neat Cattle, ..... 	104,120 Swine, ..... 	308,584 Bushels of Wheat, ..... 	363,840 do of Indian Corn, ..... 	5,459,274 Deducting from the above the one-third of the population and products of Morgan, and the following table will furnish a true exhibit of the country immediately dependent on the rail road: Population, ..... 	67,000 	per ct. 	Surplus. Horses and Mules, ..... 	32,211 	20 	6,442 Neat Cattle, ..... 	97,921 	20 	19,444 Hogs, ..... 	296,152 	331/3 	98,717 Bushels of Wheat, ..... 	342,363 	50 	171,181 Bushels of Indian Corn, 	5,177,231 	20 	1,035,446 The right hand column of the above table exhibits the surplus of production in those articles which this country produces in the greatest abundance, and is carefully prepared from information obtained of persons well qualified by their business pursuits to judge accurately. For instance, the surplus of hogs is put down at one third. This leaves one-third for home consumption and one third for stock. That one-third is abundant for home consumption is evident from the fact that it will furnish more than a pound of pork per day to every man, woman and child in the district. That the stock is ample when put at one third every farmer in the country will attest. The horses, mules and neat cattle will go to market principally on foot: and in estimating production for rail road transportation, they are left out of the calculation entirely, though the completion of the rail road would probably lead to beef packing, to a very considerable extent, in this city. In 1850, therefore, the surplus production of the country dependent on this road, and on which reliance can be placed for rail road transportation, will be 98,717 hogs, 171,181 bushels of wheat, and 1,025,447 bushels of Indian corn. Oats, barley, rye and potatoes, though produced in large quantities, are not taken into the estimate, the object of this address being to show the reliable results, which the rail road transportation of the great staples of the country will furnish. The great demand for corn for foreign exportation is relied upon to justify its production and sending to market at the cheapest rates of rail road transportation. It will always be exported when the price in Alton and St. Louis is twentyfive cents or more a bushel; and the counties embraced in this rail road district, could produce an immensely greater quantity than is at present estimated, if a market at fair prices could be always expected with any degree of certainty. Nine-tenths of all the produce for this rail road will be furnished at Springfield and New Berlin, as all the counties but Macoupin will centre their produce at those points. In estimating therefore the value of freights, the sum assumed for transportation from Springfield has been applied to all the products estimated to pass over the road. A price, however, has been assumed so low as to leave no doubt that the average will fully equal, if not exceed it. If the rail road should, therefore, be completed in 1850 the following results might be anticipated: Transportation of 1,206,628 bushels of Wheat and Corn at 61/2 cts. per bushel, 	$75,441 25 98,717 head of hogs at an average weight of 200 Ibs. would yield at 25 cts. per cwt. 	49,358 00 The amount now paid in the above counties for bringing supplies from the river, estimated from the actual amounts paid in Springfield, and at the actual cost of transportation from the river to Springfield is $74,180. We estimate the rail road rates at one-third the common rates, and find that bringing the necessary supplies for the above counties will yield to the rail road, 	24,726 66 We estimate that 30 passengers will travel over the road each day for 300 days in the year, which at $2 each will produce, 	18,000 00 ------- Producing for 1850, 	$167,498 91 The estimated cost of the road is $800,000. The annual interest on this sum at 6 per ct. 	48 000 00 ------- Leaving a balance of 	$119,498 00 or nearly fifteen per cent. on the estimated cost to keep the road, fixtures, engines, &c., in repair, and to pay the costs of running trains and furnishing necessary materials. We think this sum most ample, but whether it be too large or too small, we have not now here the means of determining. Those who may be disposed in the East to take stock in this company, will easily be able from the above estimates to arrive at tolerably accurate conclusions. If that portion of this proposed road, between Springfield and New Berlin, should continue in the hands of the present owners, or if some company, other than the Alton and Springfield company should continue to control it, an additional expenditure on that account will be required. The estimate of costs have been made only for the sixty-five miles, from New Berlin to Alton. We think, as we have suggested in another part of this report, that the whole of this great route will ultimately get into the hands of one company, and that those who are really interested in prosecuting to completion this grand scheme of improvement, will soon overcome the difficulty arising from conflicting ownership and interests. John Calhoun, 	John T. Stuart, A. Lincoln, 	William Pickerell, J. N. Brown, 	J. Bunn, P. P. Enos, 	John Williams, S. B. Opdycke, 	Virgil Hickox.

To Converse & Priest
October 1st. 1847.
Messrs. Converse & Priest: If you will let Mr. E. G. Johns  have any amount of oil not exceeding ten dollars in value, I will pay you the money for it in three months from date. A. LINCOLN

To Buckner S. Morris and John J. Brown
Friends Morris & Brown: Springfield, Octr. 19- 1847
Your letter of the 15th. was received this morning. The Governor is not here, and will not be, it is thought, for about ten days. Unfortunately for my attending to the business you sent, I start for Washington, by way of Kentucky, on next monday. I will try, however, to have the only objection that can be made, presented to the Governor. I suppose it is the true construction of the act of Congress, for the Governor, on whom the requisition is made, to look to the sufficiency of the affidavit; otherwise the provision of the act, that a copy of the indictment or affidavit, shall accompany the requisition, is mere foolishness. What view, however, our Governor will take, no man can tell. If he shall make the order surrendering the defendants, you will have, then, to do the best you can by a Habeas Corpus .  Yours in haste, A. LINCOLN

To Buckner S. Morris and John J. Brown
Messrs. Morris & Brown: Springfield, Gentlemen Oct. 21. 1847
Your second letter on the matter of Thornton & others,  came to hand this morning. I went at once to see Logan, and found that he is not engaged against you, and that he had so sent you word by Mr. Butterfield,  as he says. He says that some time ago, a young man (who he knows not) came to him, with a copy of the affidavit, to engage him to aid in getting the Governor to grant the warrant; and that he, Logan, told the man, that in his opinion, the affidavit was clearly insufficient, upon which the young man left, without making any engagement with him. If the Governor shall arrive before I leave, Logan & I will both attend to the matter, and he will attend to it, if he does not come till after I leave; all upon the condition that the Governor shall not have acted upon the matter, before his arrival here. I mention this condition because, I learned this morning from the Secretary of State, that he is forwarding to the Governor, at Palestine, all papers he receives in the case, as fast as he receives them. Among the papers forwarded will be your letter to the Gov: or Sec. of, I believe, the same date & about the same contents of your last letter to me; so that the Gov: will, at all events have your points and authorities. The case is a clear one on our side; but whether the Gov. will view it so is another thing. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

Lease Contract Between Abraham Lincoln and Cornelius Ludlum
October 23, 1847
It is hereby agreed by and between Abraham Lincoln of the City of Springfield, Illinois, and Cornelius Ludlum of the same place, that the said Lincoln lets to the said Ludlum the dwelling house in which said Lincoln now lives, in said city, together with the lot on which it stands, and the other appurtenances of said lot, for the term of one year, to commence on the first day of November next; for which the said Ludlum agrees to pay said Lincoln the sum of ninety dollars, in quarter yearly payments, to be especially careful to prevent any destruction by fire, to allow said Lincoln, the use of the North-up-stairs room, during the term, in which to store his furniture, and to return the premises at the end of the year in as good repair as he may receive them ordinary decay only excepted. October 23rd. 1847. A. LINCOLN C LUDLUM February 1st. 1848. Recd. of C Ludlum Twenty two Dollars Fifty cents for Three months Rent JOHN IRWIN & Co  August 4th. 1848. Recd. of M Brayman  Twenty two & 50/100 Dollars for three months Rent ending April 30th. 1848 JOHN IRWIN & Co Novr. 18th. 1848. Received of M. Brayman, fiftyfive dollars, including five allowed for repairing fence, which is in full of rent, on the above up to the first instant, [a]nd ten dollars on the next quarte[r .....] R[ec]eived, May 9. 1849. of M. [Brayman .....] [....]nes for rent of house up to [.....] [.....] the same, & all other accounts [.....]

Fragments of a Tariff Discussion
[December 1, 1847?]
Whether the protective policy shall be finally abandoned, is now the question. Discussion and experience already had; and question now in greater dispute than ever. Has there not been some great error in the mode of discussion? Propose a single issue of fact, namely---``From 1816 to the present, have protected articles [co]st us more, of labour, during the higher , than during the lower duties upon them?'' Introduce the evidence. Analyze this issue, and try to show that it embraces the true and the whole question of the protective policy. Intended as a test of experience . The period seclected [ sic ], is fair; because it is a period of peace---a period sufficiently long to furnish a fair average under all other causes operating on prices---a period in which various modifications of higher and lower duties have occurred. Protected articles, only are embraced. Show that these only belong to the question. The labour price only is embraced. Show this to be correct. I suppose the true effect of duties upon prices to be as follows: If a certain duty be levied upon an article which, by nature can not be produced in this country, as three cents a pound upon coffee, the effect will be, that the consumer will pay one cent more per pound than before, the producer will take one cent less, and the merchant one cent less in profits---in other words, the burthen of the duty will [be] distributed over consumption, production, and commerce, and not confined to either. But if a duty amounting to full protection be levied upon an article which can be produced here with as little labour, as elsewhere, as iron, that article will ultimately, and at no distant day, in consequence of such duty, be sold to our people cheaper than before, at least by the amount of the cost of carrying it from abroad. . . . as to useless labour.  Before proceeding however, it may be as well to give a specimen of what I conceive to be useless labour. I say, then, that all carrying , & incidents of carrying, of articles from the place of their production, to a distant place for consumption, which articles could be produced of as good quality, in sufficient quantity, and with as little labour, at the place of consumption, as at the place carried from, is useless labour. Applying this principle to our own country by an example, let us suppose that A and B, are a Pen[n]sylvania farmer, and a Pennsylvania iron-maker, whose lands are adjoining. Under the protective policy A is furnishing B with bread and meat, and vegetables, and fruits, and food for horses and oxen, and fresh supplies of horses and ox[en] themselves occasionally, and receiving, in exchange, all the iron, iron utensils, tools, and implements he needs. In this process of exchange, each receives the whole of that which the other parts with---and the reward of labour between them is perfect; each receiving the product of just so much labour, as he has himself bestowed on what he parts with for it. But the change comes. The protective policy is abandoned, and A determines to buy his iron and iron manufactures of C. in Europe. This he can only do by a direct or an indirect exchange of the produce of his farm for them. We will suppose the direct exchange is adopted. In this A desires to exchange ten barrels of flour the precise product of one hundred days labour, for the largest quantity of iron &c that he can get; C, also wishes to exchange the precise product, in iron, of one hundred days labour, for the greatest quantity of flour he can get. In intrinsic value the things to be so exchanged are precisely equal. But before this exchange can take place, the flour must be carried from Pennsylvania to England, and the iron from England to Pennsylvania. The flour starts; the waggoner who hauls it to Philadelphia, takes a part of it to pay him for his labour; then a merchant there takes a little more for storage and forwarding commission, and another takes a little more for insurance; and then the ship-owner carries it across the water, and takes a little more of it for his trouble; still before it reaches C. it is tolled two or three times more for storage, drayage, commission and so on, so that when C. gets it, there are but seven & a half barrels of it left. The iron too, in its transit from England to Penna., goes through the same process [of] tolling, so that when it reaches A there is but three quarters of it left. The result of this case is, that A. and C. have each parted with one hundred days labour, and each received but seventyfive in return. That the carrying in this case, was introduced by A ceasing to buy of B, and turning [to] C; that it was utterly useless; and that it is ruinous in its effects, upon A, are all little less than self evident. ``But,'' asks one, ``if A is now only getting three quarters as much iron from C for ten barrels of flour as he used to get of B, why does he not turn back to B?'' The answer is ``B has quit making iron, and so, has none to sell.'' ``But why did B quit making?'' [``]Because A quit buying of him, and he had no other customer to sell to.[''] ``But surely A. did not cease buying of B. with the expectation of buying of C. on harder terms?'' [``]Certainly not. Let me tell you how that was. When B was making iron as well as C, B had but one customer, this farmer A. C had four customers in Europe.[''] It seems to be an opinion very generally entertained, that the condition of a nation, is best , whe[ne]ver it can buy cheapest ; but this is not necessarily true, because if, at the same time, and by the same cause, it is compelled to sell correspondingly cheap, nothing is gained. Then, it is said, the best condition is, when we can buy cheapest , and sell dearest ; but this again, is not necessarily true; because, with both these, we might have scarcely any thing to sell---or, which is the same thing, to buy with. To illustrate this, suppose a man in the present state of things is labouring the year round, at ten dollars per month, which amounts in the year to $120---a change in affairs enables him to buy supplies at half the former price, to get fifty dollars per month for his labour; but at the same time deprives him of employment during all the months of the year but one. In this case, though goods have fallen one half, and labour risen five to one, it is still plain, that at the end of the year, the labourer is twenty dollars poorer, than under the old state of things. These reflections show, that to reason and act correctly on this subject, we must look not merely to buying cheap, nor yet to buying cheap and selling dear; but also to having constant employment, so that we may have the largest possible amount of something to sell. This matter of employment can only be secured by an ample, steady, and certain market, to sell the products of labour in. But let us yield the point, and admit that, by abandoning the protective policy, our farmers can purchase their supplies of manufactured articles cheaper than by continuing it; and then let us see whether, even at that, they will, upon the whole, be gainers by the change. To simplify this question, let us suppose the whole agricultural interest of the country to be in the hands of one man, who has one hundred labourers in h[is e]mploy; the whole manufacturing interest, to be in the hands of [one] other man, who has twenty labourers in his employ. The farmer [own]s all the plough and pasture land, and the manufacturer, all the iron-mines, and coal-banks, and sites of water power. Each is pushing on in his own way, and obtaining supplies from the other so far as he needs---that is, the manufacturer, is buying of the farmer all the cotten he can use in his cotten factory, all the wool he can use in his woollen establishment, all the bread and meat, as well as all the fruits and vegetables which are necessary for himself and all his hands in all his departments; all the corn, and oats, and hay, which are necessary for all his horses and oxen, as well as fresh supplies of horses and oxen themselves, to do all his heavy hauling about [his] iron works and generally of every sort. The farmer, in turn, is buy[ing] of the manufacturer all the iron, iron tools, wooden tools, cotten goods, woolen goods &c &c. that he needs in his business and for his hands. But after awhile farmer discovers that, were it not for the protective policy, he could buy all these supplies cheaper from a European manufacturer, owing to the fact that the price of labour is only one quarter as high there as here. He and his hands are a majority of the whole; and therefore have the legal and moral right to have their interest first consulted. They throw off the protective policy, and farmer ceases buying of home manufacturer. Verry soon, however, he discovers, that to buy , even at the cheaper rate, requires something to buy with, and some how or other, he is falling short in this particular. In the early days of the world, the Almighty said to the first of our race ``In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread''; and since then, if we except the light and the air of heaven, no good thing has been, or can be enjoyed by us, without having first cost labour. And, inasmuch [as] most good things are produced by labour, it follows that [all] such things of right belong to those whose labour has produced them. But it has so happened in all ages of the world, that some have laboured, and others have, without labour, enjoyed a large proportion of the fruits. This is wrong, and should not continue. To [secure] to each labourer the whole product of his labour, or as nearly as possible, is a most worthy object of any good government. But then the question arises, how can a government best, effect this? In our own country, in it's present condition, will the protective principle advance or retard this object? Upon this subject, the habits of our whole species fall into three great classes--- useful labour, useless labour and idleness . Of these the first only is meritorious; and to it all the products of labour rightfully belong; but the two latter, while they exist, are heavy pensioners upon the first, robbing it of a large portion of it's just rights. The only remedy for this is to, as far as possible, drive useless labour and idleness out of existence. And, first, as to useles labour. Before making war upon this, we must learn to distinguish it from the useful . It appears to me, then, that all labour done directly and incidentally in carrying articles to their place of consumption, which could have been produced in sufficient abundance, with as little labour, at the place of consumption , as at the place they were carried from, is useless labour. Let us take a few examples of the application of this principle to [our] own country. Iron & every thing made of iron, can be produced, in sufficient abundance, [and] with as little labour, in the United States, as any where else in the world; therefore, all labour done in bringing iron & it's fabrics from a foreign country to the United States, is useless labour. The same precisely may be said of cotten, wool, and of their fabrics respectively, as well as many other articles. While the uselessness of the carrying labour is [equally true] of all the articles mentioned, and of many others not men[tioned,] it is, perhaps, more glaringly obvious in relation to the cotten [goods we] purchase from abroad. The raw cotten, from which they are made, itself grows in our own country; is carried by land and by water to England, [is] there spun, wove, dyed, stamped &c; and then carried back [again] and worn in the very country where it grew, and partly by the very persons who grew it. Why should it not be spun, wove &c. in the very neighbourhood where it both grows and is consumed, and the carrying [about?] thereby dispensed with? Has nature interposed any obstacle? Are not as good and as abundant here as elsewhere? Will not as small an amount of human labour answer here as elsewhere? We may easily see that the cost of this useless labour is very heavy. It includes, not only the cost of the actual carriage, but also the insurances of every kind, and the profits the merchants through whose hands it passes. All these create a heavy burthen necessarily falling upon the useful labour connected w[ith] such articles, either depressing the price to the producer , or enhancing it to the consumer , or, what is more probable, doing both in part. A supposed case, will serve to illustrate several points now to the p[ur]pose. A, in the interior of South Carolina, has one hundred pounds of cotten, which we suppose to be the precise product of one mans labour for twenty days; B, in Manchester, England, has one hundred yards of cotten cloth, the precise product of the same amount of labour. This lot of cotten, and lot of cloth are precisely equal to each other in their intrinsic value. But A. wishes to part with his cotten for the largest quantity of cloth he can get; B, also wishes to part with his cloth for the greatest quantity of c[otten] he can get. An exchange is therefore necessary; but before this can be effected, the cotten must be carried to Manchester, and the cloth to South Carolina. The cotten starts to Manchester; the man that hauls it to Charleston in his waggon, takes a little of it out to pay him for his trouble; the merchant, who stores it a while before the ship is ready to sail, takes a little out, for his trouble; the ship-owner, who carries it across the water, takes a little out for his trouble, still before it gets to Manchester, it is tolled two or three times more for drayage, storage, commission, and so on; so that when it reaches B's hands there are but seventyfive pounds of it left. The cloth, too, in it's transit from Manchester to South Carolina goes through the same process of tolling, so that when it reaches A there are but seventyfive yards of it. Now, in this case, A. and B. have each parted with twenty days labour; and each received but fifteen in return. But now let us suppose that B. has removed to the side of A's farm, in South Carolina, and has there made his lot of cloth. Is it not clear that he and A. can then exchange their cloth & cotten, each getting the whole of what the other parts with? This supposed case shows the utter uselessness of the carrying labour in all similar cases, and also the direct burthen it imposes up[on] useful labour. And whoever will take up the train of reflection suggested by this case, and run it out to the full extent of it's just application, will be astonished, at the amount of useless labour [he] will thus discover to be done in this very way. I am mistaken, if it is not in fact many times [over] equal to all the real want in the world. This useless labour I would have discontinued, and those engaged in it, added to the class of useful labourers. If I be asked whether I would destroy all commerce, I answer ``Certainly not''---I would continue it where it is necessary , and discontinue it, where it is not. An instance: I would continue commerce so far as it is employed in bringing us coffee, and I would discontinue it so far as it is employed in bringing us cotten goods. But let us yield the point, and admit that, by abandoning to protective policy, our farmers can purchase their supplies of manufactured articles cheaper than before; and then let us see whether, even at that, the farmers will, upon the whole, be gainers by the change. To simplify this question, let us suppose our whole population to consist of but twenty men. Under the prevalence of the protective policy, fifteen of these are farmers, one is a miller, one manufactures iron, one, implements from iron, one cotten goods, and one woolen goods. The farmers discover, that, owing to labour only costing one quarter as much in Europe as here, they can buy iron, iron implements, cotten goods, & woolen goods cheaper, when brought from Europe, [tha]n when made by their neighbours. They are the majority, and [ther]efore have both the legal and moral right to have their in[tere]st first consulted. They throw off the protective policy, [an]d cease buying these articles of their neighbours. But they [soo]n discover that to buy, and at the cheaper rate, requires [som]ething to buy with. Falling short in this particular, one of [th]ese farmers, takes a load of wheat to the miller, and [g]ets it made into flour, and starts, as had been his cus[to]m, to the iron furnace; he approaches the well known spot, [bu]t, strange to say, all is cold and still as death---no [sm]oke rises, no furnace roars, no anvil rings. After some search [h]e finds the owner of the desolate place, and calls out to him, ``Come, Vulcan, dont you want to buy a load of flour?'' ``Why'' says Vulcan ``I am hungry enough, to be sure---have'nt tasted bread for a week---but then you see my works are stopped, and I have nothing to give for your flour.[''] [``] But, Vulcan, why dont you go to work and get something?[''] [``]I am ready to do so; will you hire me, farmer?[''] [``]Oh, no; I could only set you to raising wheat, and you see I have more of that already than I can get any thing for.[''] [``]But give me employment, and send your flour to Europe [for a] market.[''] [``]Why, Vulcan, how silly you talk. Dont you [know] they raise wheat in Europe as well as here, and that labour is so cheap there as to fix the price of flour there so low as scarcely to pay the long carriage of it from [here,] leaving nothing whatever to me.'' [``]But, farmer, could'nt you pay to raise and prepare garden stuffs, and fruits, such as radishes, cabages, irish and sweet potatoes, cucumbers, water-melons and musk-melons, plumbs [ sic ], pears, peaches, apples, and the like; all these are good things and used to sell well.[''] [``]So they did use to sell well, but it was to you we sold them, and now you tell us you have nothing to buy with. Of course I can not sell such things to the other farmers, because each of them raises enough for himself, and, in fact, rather wishes to sell than to buy. Neither can I send them to Europe for a market; because, to say nothing of European markets being stocked with such articles at lower prices than I can afford, they are of such a nature as to rot before they could reach there. The truth is, Vulcan, I am compelled to quit raising these things altogether, except a few for my own use, and this leaves part of my own time idle on my hands, instead of my finding employment for you.[''] If at any time all labour should cease, and all existing provisions be equally divided among the people, at the end of a single year there could scarcely be one human being left alive---all would have perished by want of subsistence. So again, if upon such division, all that sort of labour, which produces provisions, should cease, and each individual should take up so much of his share as he could, and carry it continually around his habitation, although in this carrying, the amount of labour going on might be as great as ever, so long as it could last, at the end of the year the result would be precisely the same---that is, none would be left living. The first of these propositions shows, that universal idleness would speedily result in universal ruin ; and the second shows, that useless labour is, in this respect, the same as idleness. I submit, then, whether it does not follow, that partial idleness, and partial useless labour , would, in the proportion of their extent, in like manner result, in partial ruin---whether, if all should subsist upon the labour the one half should perform, it would not result in very scanty allowance to the whole. Believing that these propositions, and the [conclusions] I draw from them can not be successfully controverted, I, for the present, assume their correctness, and proceed to try to show, that the abandonment of the protective policy by the American Government, must result in the increase of both useless labour, and idleness; and so, in pro[por]tion, must produce want and ruin among our people. (The foregoing scraps about protection were written by Lincoln, between his election to Congress in 1846, and taking his seat in Dec. 1847) 

To [David A.?] Smith
Friend Smith: Washington, Decr. 3. 1847
This is my first day at this place, & on reaching here I found your letter in relation to your business with Douglass. I met him afterwards, but disliking to dunn him at the first meeting with him, I let it pass, for the time. I will attend to it shortly however & write you. You intimate there is some danger of my neglecting the business; but if you will get me as good a fee as you got for Jo. Gillespie  in the case he tells of, I'll never desert you. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William H. Herndon
Washington, December 5, 1847.
Dear William: You may remember that about a year ago a man by the name of Wilson (James Wilson, I think) paid us twenty dollars as an advance fee to attend to a case in the Supreme Court for him, against a Mr. Campbell,  the record of which case was in the hands of Mr. Dixon  of St. Louis, who never furnished it to us.  When I was at Bloomington last fall, I met a friend of Wilson, who mentioned the subject to me, and induced me to write to Wilson, telling him I would leave the ten dollars with you which had been left with me to pay for making abstracts in the case, so that the case may go on this winter; but I came away, and forgot to do it. What I want now is to send you the money, to be used accordingly, if any one comes on to start the case, or to be retained by you if no one does. There is nothing of consequence new here. Congress is to organize to-morrow. Last night we held a Whig caucus for the House, and nominated Winthrop of Massachusetts for speaker,  Sargent of Pennsylvania for sergeant-at-arms,  Homer [Horner] of New Jersey doorkeeper,  and McCormick of District of Columbia postmaster.  The Whig majority in the House is so small  that, together with some little dissatisfaction, [it] leaves it doubtful whether we will elect them all. This paper is too thick to fold, which is the reason I send only a half-sheet. Yours as ever, A. LINCOLN.

Endorsement: Chester Butleret alto Robert E. Horner
December 7, 1847
I concur, on the faith of what the above named gentlemen have said A. LINCOLN

To James K. Polk
House of Representatives. Decr. 8. 1847
His Excellency the President of the U. States Dear Sir: We, the undersigned, members of the H.R. and being one Democrat and one Whig, respectfully solicit the appointment of Thomas Graham Jr. of Beardstown, Illinois, to a first Lieutenancy in the U.S. Infantry. Mr. Graham is a Democrat, but is rec-commended, as we personally know, by most respectable men of both parties. Under these circumstances, we are sincerely desirous that he should receive the appointment. Accompanying this, are the letters which have been forwarded to us on the subject. Very Respectfully Your Obt. Servts. W A RICHARDSON  A. LINCOLN

To James K. Polk
House of Representatives, Decr. 8- 1847
His Excellency, the President of the U. States. Dear Sir: Mr. Franklin L Rhoads, of Pekin, Illinois, desires the appointment to a Lieutenancy in the U.S. Army, as you perceive by the Pe[ti]tion, accompanying this. Mr. Rhoads is a Whig; but of the fifteen persons who sign his Petition, I personally know five to be influential Democrats, five whigs, and the remaining five to be respectable men, though their politics are unknown to me. The Mr. Jones, who writes the accompanying letter, addressed to me, has received a military education, and was Mr. Rhoads' captain in the battle of Cerro Gordo. If the appointment could be confered on Mr. Rhoads, I should be personally grateful for it. Very Respectfully Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

Petition to Robert E. HornerConcerning Abram O. Bowen
December 9, 1847
Mr R. E. Horner Esqr Door Keeper of House of Reps I understand that Mr Abram O. Bowen of Missouri who has been for some time Fireman of the House was the first person appointed to that place & that he was not used as an instrument of proscription to any other person. Mr Bowen is gentlemanly & courteous in his deportment & I believe discharges his duties faithfully. I should be pleased to see him retained & recommend him to your consideration. Respy 9th Dec. 1847

To Richard Yates
Friend Yates: Washington, December 10, 1847.
I presented your claim to Douglass  this morning; he says it is all right and that he will pay it in a few days. When he shall have done so, you will hear from me at once. Things have not advanced far enough to enable me to tell you much in the way of politics, more than you see in the papers. I believe Mr. Calhoun  and what force he can control are preparing to support Gen. Taylor  for the Presidency. I get this impression from conversations with Duff Greene,  who boards at the same house I do. There are, however, a great many Whigs here who do not wish to go for Taylor, and some of whom I fear can not be brought to do it. There are still many others of them who are strong for him, among whom I class Mr. Crittenden,  although he does not expressly say so. I shall be pleased to have a line from you occasionally. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN. ALS, John & Richard Henderson

To James K. Polk
His Excellency, the President. Washington, Decr. 11. 1847
Some days since I transmitted to you the application of Mr. Rhoads of Pekin Illinois, for a Lieutenancy. Since then I have received the enclosed letter of Hon: E. D. Baker, in his behalf, which I now take the liberty of submitting to you. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Herndon
Dear William: Washington, Dec. 12. 1847
As soon as the Congressional Globe and Appendix begins to issue, I shall send you a copy of it regularly. I wish you to read it, or as much of it as you please, and be careful to preserve all the numbers, so that we can have a complete file of it There is nothing new here, but what you see in the papers. Yours as ever--- A. LINCOLN

To William H. Herndon
Dear William: Washington, Dec. 13. 1847
Your letter advising me of the receipt of our fee in the Bank case, is just received, and I dont expect to hear another as good a piece of news from Springfield while I am away. I am under no obligation to the Bank; and I therefore wish you to buy Bank certificates and pay my debt there, so as to pay it with the least money possible. I would as soon you should buy them of Mr. Ridgley  or any other person at the Bank, as of any one else, provided you can get them as cheaply. I suppose after the Bank debt shall be paid, there will be some money left, out of which I would like to have you to pay Lavely & Stout  $20- and Priest & somebody  (oil makers) $10- for materials got for house painting. If there shall still be any left, keep it till you see, or hear from me. I shall begin sending documents so soon as [I] can get them. I wrote you yesterday about a Congressional Globe. As you are all so anxious for me to distinguish myself, I have concluded to do so, before long. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

``Spot'' Resolutionsin the United States House of Representatives
December 22, 1847
Whereas the President of the United States, in his message of May 11th. 1846, has declared that ``The Mexican Government not only refused to receive him'' (the envoy of the U.S.) ``or listen to his propositions, but, after a long continued series of menaces, have at last invaded our teritory , and shed the blood of our fellow citizens on our own soil '' And again, in his message of December 8, 1846 that ``We had ample cause of war against Mexico, long before the breaking out of hostilities. But even then we forbore to take redress into our own hands, until Mexico herself became the aggressor by invading our soil in hostile array, and shedding the blood of our citizens '' And yet again, in his message of December 7- 1847 that ``The Mexican Government refused even to hear the terms of adjustment which he'' (our minister of peace) ``was authorized to propose; and finally, under wholly unjustifiable pretexts, involved the two countries in war, by invading the teritory of the State of Texas, striking the first blow, and shedding the blood of our citizens on our own soil '' And whereas this House desires to obtain a full knowledge of all the facts which go to establish whether the particular spot of soil on which the blood of our citizens was so shed, was, or was not, our own soil , at that time; therefore Resolved by the House of Representatives, that the President of the United States be respectfully requested to inform this House--- First: Whether the spot of soil on which the blood of our citizens was shed, as in his messages declared, was, or was not, within the teritories of Spain, at least from the treaty of 1819 until the Mexican revolution Second: Whether that spot is, or is not, within the teritory which was wrested from Spain, by the Mexican revolution. Third: Whether that spot is, or is not, within a settlement of people, which settlement had existed ever since long before the Texas revolution, until it's inhabitants fled from the approach of the U.S. Army. Fourth: Whether that settlement is, or is not, isolated from any and all other settlements, by the Gulf of Mexico, and the Rio Grande, on the South and West, and by wide uninhabited regions on the North and East. Fifth: Whether the People of that settlement, or a majority of them, or any of them, had ever, previous to the bloodshed, mentioned in his messages, submitted themselves to the government or laws of Texas, or of the United States, by consent , or by compulsion , either by accepting office, or voting at elections, or paying taxes, or serving on juries, or having process served upon them, or in any other way . Sixth: Whether the People of that settlement, did, or did not, flee from the approach of the United States Army, leaving unprotected their homes and their growing crops, before the blood was shed, as in his messages stated; and whether the first blood so shed, was, or was not shed, within the inclosure of the People, or some of them, who had thus fled from it. Seventh: Whether our citizens , whose blood was shed, as in his messages declared, were, or were not, at that time, armed officers, and soldiers , sent into that settlement, by the military order of the President through the Secretary of War---and Eighth: Whether the military force of the United States, including those citizens , was, or was not, so sent into that settlement, after Genl. Taylor had, more than once, intimated to the War Department that, in his opinion, no such movement was necessary to the defence or protection of Texas.

To the Commissioner of Pensions
Commissioner of Pensions House of Representatives Dear Sir: Decr. 26. 1847
Will you please inform me, as soon as convenient, whether the claims of John Huckleberry and Thomas Collins,  of Illinois, for Land warrants, have been presented at your office; and if they have, what is their condition. Respectfully A. LINCOLN

To Blair & Rives
Messrs Blair & Rives [1848?]
Gentlemen: The copies of the Globe and Appendix to which I am entitled, I shall thank you to retain and deliver to me at the end of the session. Respectfully A. LINCOLN

To Richard S. Thomas
Dear Richard: Washington, Jany. 1- 1848.
Your letter of the 23rd. Decr. is received, as also the Petition you mention. When documents become plenty, which they have not yet, I will send them to you. There is a good deal of diversity among the whigs here, as to who shall be their candidate for the Presidency; but I think it will result in favor of Genl. Taylor. As to Mr. Graham's  application for a Lieutenancy, I have already submitted it to the President, in the best way I could think of to give it chance of success. I wrote him about it; and do not know any thing more that I can do for him. You know I can have no intimacy with the President, which might give me personal influence with him. In great haste Yours as ever--- A. LINCOLN

Remarks in United States House of Representatives Concerning Postal Contracts
January 5, 1848
Mr. LINCOLN said that he had made an effort some few days since to obtain the floor in relation to this measure  , but had failed. One of the objects he had then had in view was now in a great measure superseded by what had fallen from the gentleman from Virginia  who had just taken his seat. He begged to assure his friends on the other side of the House, that no assault whatever was meant upon the Postmaster General; and he was glad that what the gentleman had now said, modified to a great extent the impression which might have been created by the language he had used on a previous occasion. He wanted to state to gentlemen who might have entertained such impressions, that the Committee on the Post Office was composed of five Whigs and four Democrats, and their report was understood as sustaining, not impugning, the position taken by the Postmaster General. That report had met with the approbation of all the Whigs and of all the Democrats also, with the exception of one, and he wanted to go even further than this. [Intimations were here informally given to Mr. L. that it was not in order to mention on the floor what had taken place in committee.] He than observed that if he had been out of order in what he had said, he took it all back, [a laugh,] so far as he could. He had no desire, he could assure gentlemen, ever to be out of order---though he never could keep long in order. Mr. L. went on to observe, that he differed in opinion, in the present case, from his honorable friend from Richmond, [Mr. BOTTS]. That gentleman had begun his remarks by saying that if all prepossessions in this matter could be removed out of the way, but little difficulty would be experienced in coming to an agreement. Now, he could assure that gentleman that he had himself begun the examination of this subject with prepossessions all in his favor. He had long and often heard of him, and, from what he had heard, was prepossessed in his favor. Of the Postmaster General he had also heard, but had no prepossessions in his favor, though certainly none of an opposite kind. He differed, however, from that gentleman in politics, while in this respect he agreed with the gentleman from Virginia, [Mr. BOTTS,] whom he wished to oblige whenever it was in his power. That gentleman had referred to the report made to the House by the Postmaster General, and had intimated an apprehension that gentleman would be disposed to rely on that report alone, and derive their views of the case from that document alone. Now, it so happened that a pamphlet had been slipped into his [Mr. L.'s] hand before he read the report of the Postmaster General; so that, even in this, he had begun with prepossessions in favor of the gentleman from Virginia. As to the report, he had but one remark to make: he had carefully examined it, and he did not understand that there was any dispute as to the facts therein stated: the dispute, if he understood it, was confined altogether to the inferences to be drawn from those facts. It was a difference not about facts, but about conclusions. The facts were not disputed. If he was right in this, he supposed the House might assume the facts to be as they were stated, and thence proceed to draw their own conclusions. The gentleman had said that the Postmaster General had got into a personal squabble with the railroad company. Of this, Mr. L. knew nothing; nor did he need or desire to know anything, because it had nothing whatever to do with a just conclusion from the premises. But the gentleman had gone on to ask whether so great a grievance as the present detention of the southern mail ought not to be remedied? Mr. L. would assure the gentleman that if there was a proper way of doing it, no man was more anxious than he that it should be done. The report made by the committee had been intended to yield much for the sake of removing that grievance. That the grievance was very great, there was no dispute in any quarter. He supposed the statements made by the gentleman from Virginia to show this were all entirely correct in point of fact. He did suppose that the interruptions of regular intercourse, and all the other inconveniences growing out of it, were all as that gentleman had stated them to be; and certainly, if redress could be rendered, it was proper it should be rendered as soon as possible. The gentleman said that, in order to effect this, no new legislative action was needed: all that was necessary was, that the Postmaster General should be required to do what the law, as it stood, authorized and required him to do. We come, then, said Mr. L., to the law. Now the Postmaster General says that he cannot give to this company over $237 50 per railroad mile of transportation, and 121/2 per cent. less for transportation by steamboats. He considers himself as restricted by law to this amount; and he says, further, that he would not give more if he could, because, in his apprehension, it would not be fair and just. Mr. Hilliard  here wished to be set right in his apprehension of the facts of the case, and he made some inquiry not distinctly heard across the Hall; and, after a brief conversation, expressing himself satisfied, resumed his seat. Mr. Lincoln proceeded. I had the impression that the service rendered under the present contract cost the Government more than if the mail were carried by the railroad company, in consequence of its passing over a longer route. Understanding this, my view of the question remains unchanged. And now as to the law: I am not disposed to discuss it at any very great length; for, as the appeal is here to the law-making power, which can alter the law whenever a modification is required, there does not seem any necessity of very nicely discussing what it is as it now stands. If it shall be clearly shown what naked justice requires, it will be easy to make the law conform to that requirement. But let us look at it as it stands. There are three laws which have a bearing on this question: the first authorizes the Postmaster General to give to a contractor 25 per cent. more for the transportation of the mail over railroads than for similar transportation in mail-coaches; another law says that the Postmaster General shall not allow more than $300 per mile for daily transportation, provided that his contract does not conflict with the provisions of the law first referred to. Then there is a third law which directs the Postmaster General to classify the sorts of service rendered. It was this which caused him to give less for transportation by steamboats than over railroads; he graduated the compensation for this at a point midway between that by railroad and that by mail-coaches. The difference between railroad and coach being but 25 per cent., he placed the price for steamboat transportation at 12 1/2 per cent. above the one and below the other. I do not understand that this construction of the law by the Postmaster General is held in any quarter to be wrong. The fact that the law allows him to pay $300 for daily transportation and for more frequent than daily, has been alluded to; but, as I understand, the position is not taken that he is authorized to allow this company $300 per mile. If it is, I shall proceed to examine it. All must admit that all the laws on the subject are extremely loose and general in their language; that they admit of different constructions; and that no one construction that can be given them leaves the mind entirely satisfied. The law allows $300 to be paid for transporting the mail daily or oftener, thereby fixing the compensation for one transportation and for two at the same amount. This alone is enough to show that the law is not very definite in its provisions, and in fact it is hardly possible to put an equitable construction upon it. It refers to a prior law, and says it is not to be construed so as to interfere with it. From the whole of what the gentleman from Virginia has said, I understand his sense of the matter to be, that we are in this case to be governed by the old law. Now, I ask the lawyers in this House (I suppose there are some) [a laugh] whether I am not right when I say, that where a law has been passed in terms so general as to require a construction to be put upon it, (and this is the case with most laws,) and constructions of its provisions are accordingly given, and a second law is afterwards passed referring to the first, this second law is held to recognize and to confirm the constructions put upon that first passed? If this is so, then I say that the Postmaster General was not wrong when he insisted that the latter law, when it referred to the former, meant to refer to it as construed; in which case the construction seems to be confirmed and strengthened by the last passed. But, looking only to the original construction itself of the old law, the gentleman from Virginia says that Mr. Kendall's construction of the terms ``similar transportation by mail coaches,'' was wrong, and that he ought to have construed it to mean transportation of the same mail not only, but by the same route. But, now, suppose there was no mail-coach transportation on that route, what must his construction be in that case? What did the present Postmaster General in fact do? He took the most expensive mail-coach route in the nation. He took the prices allowed for coach transportation on different portions of that route, and averaged them, and then built his construction of the law upon that average. It came to $190 per mile. He added 25 per cent. to that rate, and offered the result to this railroad company. The gentleman from Virginia says that this was wrong: I say it was right. But the gentleman says he ought to have reckoned coach transportation on that specific route. Well, if he had done so, he would have added 25 per cent. upon $5,000, and no more; for the Postmaster General tells us that before he made his contract with this railroad company, the same mail had been carried for between $5,000 and $6,000. The company now get $28,000, and are not satisfied. Had he taken the same rate then, where would they have been? If there had been a coach line, he would not have gained anything by that. For I have inquired at what rate the mail could be carried by coaches from Washington to Richmond, and I have heard that the lowest bid ever made was $28,000. If he had added 25 per cent. to that, it would have been more than the company asks. This fact, and one other item that I obtained, are all that I had to enable me to get at justice in this case. An old gentleman, whose very good looks prepossessed me in his favor, and would incline me to believe any statement he should make, told me that he had been a stockholder in the road, and had never got over 5 per cent. dividend on his stock. The same source of information admitted that since the construction of the railroad, mail-coaches had been wholly disused. It is a bad road, and always has been, and the mail could not now be carried over it in coaches for three or four times what it might have been, had not the railroad been constructed. I think that abundant reasons have been given to show that the construction put upon the law by the Postmaster General is the right construction, and that subsequent acts of Congress have confirmed it. I have already said that the grievance complained of ought to be remedied. But it is said that the sum of money about which all this difficulty has arisen is exceeding small---not more than $2,700. I admit it is very small; and if nothing else were involved, it would not be worth the dispute. But there is a principle involved; and if we once yield to a wrong principle, that concession will be the prolific source of endless mischief. It is for this reason, and not for the sake of saving $2,700, that I am unwilling to yield what is demanded. If I had no apprehensions that the ghost of this yielding would rise and appear in various distant places, I would say, pay the money, and let us have no more fuss about it. But I have such apprehensions. I do believe, that if we yield this, our act will be the source of other claims equally unjust, and therefore I cannot vote to make the allowance. And now, I suppose, I may, without being out of order, tell what I was willing, in committee, to yield for the sake of removing this evil. I was willing to give as damages what the department would have to pay the Bay Company for breach of contract, be it $2,700, or whatever amount. Be it what it might, it would be so much money gone; it would never rise again. Mr. L. insisted that the true and great point to which the attention of this House or the committee should be directed was, what is a just compensation? Inasmuch as this railroad and steamboat company could afford greater facilities than any other line, the service ought to be done upon this route; but it ought to be done upon just and fair principles. If it could not be done at what had been offered, let it be shown that a greater amount was just. But, until it was shown, he was opposed to increasing it. He had seen many things in the report of the Postmaster General and elsewhere that stood out against the river route. Now, the daily steamboat transportation between Troy and New York was performed for less than one hundred dollars per mile. This company was dissatisfied with two hundred and twelve or two hundred and thirteen dollars per mile. It had not been shown, and he thought it could not be shown to them why this company was entitled to more, or so much more, than the other received. It was true, they had to encounter the ice, but was there not more ice further north? There might possibly be shown some reason why the Virginia line should have more; but was there any reason why they should have so much more? Again, the price paid between Cincinnati and Louisville for daily transportation was not two hundred and thirteen dollars per mile, or one hundred dollars, or fifty; it was less than twenty-eight dollars per mile. Now, he did not insist that there might not be some peculiar reasons connected with this route between this city and Richmond that entitled it to more than was paid on the routes between Cincinnati and Louisville, and Troy and New York. But, if there were reasons, they ought to be shown. And was it supposed that there could be any, or so peculiar reasons, as to justify so great a difference in compensation as was claimed by this company? It did seem that there could be none. These reasons actuated him in taking the position he had taken, painfully refusing to oblige his friend from Virginia, which he assured the gentleman he had the greatest inclination to do. In relation to the report of the committee, let him state one thing: It proposed that the Postmaster General should again offer this company what he had already offered and they had refused. It was for the reason that the Postmaster General, as he understood, had informed them that he was not himself going to renew the proposition. The committee supposed---at any rate, he (Mr. L.) supposed---that as soon as the company should know that they could get what he had offered them, and no more---as soon as all hope of greater compensation was cut off---that instant they would not take ten thousand dollars a year for the privilege of doing it. Whether this was actually the case he did not profess positively to know; it was a matter of opinion, but he firmly believed it. In proposing to offer them the contract again, as he had already said, the committee yielded something, viz. the damage that the Government would have to pay for the breaking up of the present arrangement. He was willing to incur that damage; some other gentlemen were not; they were further away from the position which his friend from Virginia took. He was willing to yield something, but could not consent to go the whole length with the gentleman. In relation to what the damage would be, it would of course depend upon what was shown to this House and to the Senate to be fair and reasonable. It was a general principle of law that this Government could not be sued upon any contract. It was a principle of the common law that no judgment can go against the State, and it had been confirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States in repeated instances. Now, how was this company to get anything for their damages? Why, simply by coming here and laying their case before Congress. Mr. L. concluded by remarking that this was all he wished to say. If there was any portion of his hour left, he would only ask that it should be passed to his credit for some future occasion.

Remarks Continued in United States House of Representatives Concerning Postal Contracts
January 6, 1848
The House . . . resolved itself into Committee of the Whole (Mr. SMITH,  of Indiana, in the chair) on the joint resolution concerning the transportation of the mail from Washington south. . . . Mr. GOGGIN  said. . . . The gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LINCOLN) had yesterday thought proper to go into what occurred in committee in connection with this subject. He regretted that the gentleman should so far have trespassed, unintentionally he had no doubt, upon the rules of the House; but as he stated that every member upon that committee, of both political parties---that all those with whom he was associated united in support of this resolution, he thought proper to notice the remark. Mr. LINCOLN here interposed, and (Mr. G. yielding) said that the gentleman had misunderstood him. He had said a majority of one party and the whole of the other had supported the resolution in committee.

To the Third Auditor of the Treasury
Dear Sir: Washington, Jany. 6. 1848
Enclosed are some papers pertaining to a claim of Dr. Argyle W. Furr. Supposing it might do good, and could do no harm, I have added my certificates of the genuineness of Col. Baker's signatures.  Will you please examine them, and address me at the House of Representatives? Very Respectfully A. LINCOLN.

Endorsement of Papers Signed by Edward D. Baker
January 6, 1848
I certify that the above signature, purporting to be that of Col. E. D Baker, is genuine. A. LINCOLN, Jany. 6, 1848 a member of Congress---

To William H. Herndon
Washington, January 8, 1848.
Dear William: Your letter of December 27 was received a day or two ago. I am much obliged to you for the trouble you have taken, and promise to take in my little business there. As to speech-making, by way of getting the hang of the House I made a little speech two or three days ago on a post-office question of no general interest. I find speaking here and elsewhere about the same thing. I was about as badly scared, and no worse, as I am when I speak in court. I expect to make one within a week or two, in which I hope to succeed well enough to wish you to see it. It is very pleasant to learn from you that there are some who desire that I should be re-elected. I most heartily thank them for their kind partiality; and I can say, as Mr. Clay said of the annexation of Texas, that ``personally I would not object'' to a re-election, although I thought at the time, and still think, it would be quite as well for me to return to the law at the end of a single term. I made the declaration that I would not be a candidate again, more from a wish to deal fairly with others, to keep peace among our friends, and to keep the district from going to the enemy, than for any cause personal to myself; so that, if it should so happen that nobody else wishes to be elected, I could not refuse the people the right of sending me again. But to enter myself as a competitor of others, or to authorize any one so to enter me, is what my word and honor forbid. I got some letters intimating a probability of so much difficulty amongst our friends as to lose us the district; but I remember such letters were written to Baker when my own case was under consideration, and I trust there is no more ground for such apprehension now than there was then. Remember I am always glad to receive a letter from you. Most truly your friend, A. LINCOLN.

To Blair & Rives
January 11, 1848
Messrs Blair & Rives will greatly oblige me by sending my [ sic ] by the bearer, the volume containing the Debates of the 2nd. session of the 28th. Congress; which volume, if sent, I shall be careful to return uninjured, or pay for, at their option. Jany. 11. 1848. A. LINCOLN

Speech in United States House of Representatives: The War with Mexico
Mr. Chairman: January 12, 1848
Some, if not all the gentlemen on, the other side of the House, who have addressed the committee within the last two days, have spoken rather complainingly, if I have rightly understood them, of the vote given a week or ten days ago, declaring that the war with Mexico was unnecessarily and unconstitutionally commenced by the President.  I admit that such a vote should not be given, in mere party wantonness, and that the one given, is justly censurable, if it have no other, or better foundation. I am one of those who joined in that vote; and I did so under my best impression of the truth of the case. How I got this impression, and how it may possibly be removed, I will now try to show. When the war began, it way my opinion that all those who, because of knowing too little , or because of knowing too much , could not conscientiously approve the conduct of the President, in the beginning of it, should, nevertheless, as good citizens and patriots, remain silent on that point, at least till the war should be ended. Some leading democrats, including Ex President Van Buren, have taken this same view, as I understand them; and I adhered to it, and acted upon it, until since I took my seat here; and I think I should still adhere to it, were it not that the President and his friends will not allow it to be so. Besides the continual effort of the President to argue every silent vote given for supplies, into an endorsement of the justice and wisdom of his conduct---besides that singularly candid paragraph, in his late message in which he tells us that Congress, with great unanimity, only two in the Senate and fourteen in the House dissenting, had declared that, ``by the act of the Republic of Mexico, a state of war exists between that Government and the United States,'' when the same journals that informed him of this, also informed him, that when that declaration stood disconnected from the question of supplies, sixtyseven in the House, and not fourteen merely, voted against it---besides this open attempt to prove, by telling the truth , what he could not prove by telling the whole truth ---demanding of all who will not submit to be misrepresented, in justice to themselves, to speak out---besides all this, one of my colleagues (Mr. Richardson)  at a very early day in the session brought in a set of resolutions, expressly endorsing the original justice of the war on the part of the President. Upon these resolutions, when they shall be put on their passage I shall be compelled to vote; so that I can not be silent, if I would. Seeing this, I went about preparing myself to give the vote understandingly when it should come. I carefully examined the President's messages, to ascertain what he himself had said and proved upon the point. The result of this examination was to make the impression, that taking for true, all the President states as facts, he falls far short of proving his justification; and that the President would have gone farther with his proof, if it had not been for the small matter, that the truth would not permit him. Under the impression thus made, I gave the vote before mentioned. I propose now to give, concisely, the process of the examination I made, and how I reached the conclusion I did. The President, in his first war message of May 1846, declares that the soil was ours on which hostilities were commenced by Mexico; and he repeats that declaration, almost in the same language, in each successive annual message, thus showing that he esteems that point, a highly essential one. In the importance of that point, I entirely agree with the President. To my judgment, it is the very point , upon which he should be justified, or condemned. In his message of Decr. 1846, it seems to have occurred to him, as is certainly true, that title---ownership---to soil, or any thing else, is not a simple fact; but is a conclusion following one or more simple facts; and that it was incumbent upon him, to present the facts, from which he concluded, the soil was ours, on which the first blood of the war was shed. Accordingly a little below the middle of page twelve in the message last referred to, he enters upon that task; forming an issue, and introducing testimony, extending the whole, to a little below the middle of page fourteen. Now I propose to try to show, that the whole of this,---issue and evidence---is, from beginning to end, the sheerest deception. The issue, as he presents it, is in these words ``But there are those who, conceding all this to be true, assume the ground that the true western boundary of Texas is the Nueces, instead of the Rio Grande; and that, therefore, in marching our army to the east bank of the latter river, we passed the Texan line, and invaded the teritory of Mexico.'' Now this issue, is made up of two affirmatives and no negative. The main deception of it is, that it assumes as true, that one river or the other is necessarily the boundary; and cheats the superficial thinker entirely out of the idea, that possibly the boundary is somewhere between the two, and not actually at either. A further deception is, that it will let in evidence , which a true issue would exclude. A true issue, made by the President, would be about as follows ``I say, the soil was ours , on which the first blood was shed; there are those who say it was not.'' I now proceed to examine the Presidents evidence, as applicable to such an issue. When that evidence is analized, it is all included in the following propositions: 1. That the Rio Grande was the Western boundary of Louisiana as we purchased it of France in 1803. 2. That the Republic of Texas always claimed the Rio Grande, as her Western boundary. 3. That by various acts, she had claimed it on paper . 4. That Santa Anna, in his treaty with Texas, recognised the Rio Grande, as her boundary. 5. That Texas before , and the U. S. after , annexation had exercised jurisdiction beyond the Nueces--- between the two rivers. 6. That our Congress, understood the boundary of Texas to extend beyond the Nueces. Now for each of these in it's turn. His first item is, that the Rio Grande was the Western boundary of Louisiana, as we purchased it of France in 1803; and seeming to expect this to be disputed, he argues over the amount of nearly a page, to prove it true; at the end of which he lets us know, that by the treaty of 1819, we sold to Spain the whole country from the Rio Grande eastward, to the Sabine. Now, admitting for the present, that the Rio Grande, was the boundary of Louisiana, what, under heaven, had that to do with the present boundary between us and Mexico? How, Mr. Chairman, the line, that once divided your land from mine, can still be the boundary between us, after I have sold my land to you, is, to me, beyond all comprehension. And how any man, with an honest purpose only, of proving the truth, could ever have thought of introducing such a fact to prove such an issue, is equally incomprehensible.  His next piece of evidence is that ``The Republic of Texas always claimed this river (Rio Grande) as her western boundary[.]'' That is not true, in fact. Texas has claimed it, but she has not always claimed it. There is, at least, one distinguished exception. Her state constitution,---the republic's most solemn, and well considered act---that which may, without impropriety, be called her last will and testament revoking all others---makes no such claim. But suppose she had always claimed it. Has not Mexico always claimed the contrary? so that there is but claim against claim , leaving nothing proved, until we get back of the claims, and find which has the better foundation . Though not in the order in which the President presents his evidence, I now consider that class of his statements, which are, in substance, nothing more than that Texas has, by various acts of her convention and congress, claimed the Rio Grande, as her boundary, on paper . I mean here what he says about the fixing of the Rio Grande as her boundary in her old constitution (not her state constitution) about forming congressional districts, counties &c &c. Now all of this is but naked claim ; and what I have already said about claims is strictly applicable to this. If I should claim your land, by word of mouth, that certainly would not make it mine; and if I were to claim it by a deed which I had made myself, and with which, you had had nothing to do, the claim would be quite the same, in substance---or rather, in utter nothingness. I next consider the President's statement that Santa Anna in his treaty  with Texas, recognised the Rio Grande, as the western boundary of Texas. Besides the position, so often taken that Santa Anna, while a prisoner of war---a captive--- could not bind Mexico by a treaty, which I deem conclusive---besides this, I wish to say something in relation to this treaty, so called by the President, with Santa Anna. If any man would like to be amused by a sight of that little thing, which the President calls by that big name, he can have it, by turning to Niles' Register volume 50, page 336. And if any one should suppose that Niles' Register is a curious repository of so mighty a document, as a solemn treaty between nations, I can only say that I learned, to a tolerable degree [of] certainty, by enquiry at the State Department, that the President himself, never saw it any where else. By the way, I believe I should not err, if I were to declare, that during the first ten years of the existence of that document, it was never, by any body, called a treaty---that it was never so called, till the President, in his extremity, attempted, by so calling it, to wring something from it in justification of himself in connection with the Mexican war. It has none of the distinguishing features of a treaty. It does not call itself a treaty. Santa Anna does not therein, assume to bind Mexico; he assumes only to act as the President-Commander-in-chief of the Mexican Army and Navy; stipulates that the then present hostilities should cease, and that he would not himself take up arms, nor influence the Mexican people to take up arms, against Texas during the existence of the war of independence[.] He did not recognise the independence of Texas; he did not assume to put an end to the war; but clearly indicated his expectation of it's continuance; he did not say one word about boundary, and, most probably, never thought of it. It is stipulated therein that the Mexican forces should evacuate the teritory of Texas, passing to the other side of the Rio Grande ; and in another article, it is stipulated that, to prevent collisions between the armies, the Texan army should not approach nearer than within five leagues---of what is not said---but clearly, from the object stated it is---of the Rio Grande. Now, if this is a treaty, recognising the Rio Grande, as the boundary of Texas, it contains the singular feauture [ sic ], of stipulating, that Texas shall not go within five leagues of her own boundary. Next comes the evidence of Texas before annexation, and the United States, afterwards, exercising jurisdiction beyond the Nueces, and between the two rivers. This actual exercise of jurisdiction, is the very class or quality of evidence we want. It is excellent so far as it goes; but does it go far enough? He tells us it went beyond the Nueces; but he does not tell us it went to the Rio Grande. He tells us, jurisdiction was exercised between the two rivers, but he does not tell us it was exercised over all the teritory between them. Some simple minded people, think it is possible , to cross one river and go beyond it without going all the way to the next---that jurisdiction may be exercised between two rivers without covering all the country between them. I know a man, not very unlike myself, who exercises jurisdiction over a piece of land between the Wabash and the Mississippi; and yet so far is this from being all there is between those rivers, that it is just one hundred and fiftytwo feet long by fifty wide, and no part of it much within a hundred miles of either. He has a neighbour between him and the Mississippi,---that is, just across the street, in that direction---whom, I am sure, he could neither persuade nor force to give up his habitation; but which nevertheless, he could certainly annex, if it were to be done, by merely standing on his own side of the street and claiming it, or even, sitting down, and writing a deed for it. But next the President tells us, the Congress of the United States understood the state of Texas they admitted into the union, to extend beyond the Nueces. Well, I suppose they did. I certainly so understood it. But how far beyond? That Congress did not understand it to extend clear to the Rio Grande, is quite certain by the fact of their joint resolutions, for admission, expressly leaving all questions of boundary to future adjustment. And it may be added, that Texas herself, is proved to have had the same understanding of it, that our Congress had, by the fact of the exact conformity of her new constitution, to those resolutions. I am now through the whole of the President's evidence; and it is a singular fact, that if any one should declare the President sent the army into the midst of a settlement of Mexican people, who had never submited, by consent or by force, to the authority of Texas or of the United States, and that there , and thereby , the first blood of the war was shed, there is not one word in all the President has said, which would either admit or deny the declaration.  This strange omission, it does seem to me, could not have occurred but by design. My way of living leads me to be about the courts of justice; and there, I have sometimes seen a good lawyer, struggling for his client's neck, in a desparate case, employing every artifice to work round, befog, and cover up, with many words, some  point arising in the case, which he dared not admit, and yet could not deny. Party bias may help to make it appear so; but with all the allowance I can make for such bias, it still does appear to me, that just such, and from just such necessity, is the President's struggle in this case. Some time after my colleague (Mr. Richardson) introduced the resolutions I have mentioned, I introduced a preamble, resolution, and interrogatories,  intended to draw the President out, if possible, on this hitherto untrodden ground. To show their relevancy, I propose to state my understanding of the true rule for ascertaining the boundary between Texas and Mexico. It is, that wherever Texas was exercising jurisdiction, was hers; and wherever Mexico was exercising jurisdiction, was hers; and that whatever separated the actual exercise of jurisdiction of the one, from that of the other, was the true boundary between them. If, as is probably true, Texas was exercising jurisdiction along the western bank of the Nueces, and Mexico was exercising it along the eastern bank of the Rio Grande, then neither river was the boundary; but the uninhabited country between the two, was. The extent of our teritory in that region depended, not on any treaty-fixed boundary (for no treaty had attempted it) but on revolution. Any people anywhere, being inclined and having the power, have the right to rise up, and shake off the existing government, and form a new one that suits them better. This is a most valuable,---a most sacred right---a right, which we hope and believe, is to liberate the world. Nor is this right confined to cases in which the whole people of an existing government, may choose to exercise it. Any portion of such people that can, may revolutionize, and make their own , of so much of the teritory as they inhabit. More than this, a majority of any portion of such people may revolutionize, putting down a minority , intermingled with, or near about them, who may oppose their movement. Such minority, was precisely the case, of the tories of our own revolution. It is a quality of revolutions not to go by old lines, or old laws; but to break up both, and make new ones. As to the country now in question, we bought it of France in 1803, and sold it to Spain in 1819, according to the President's statements. After this, all Mexico, including Texas, revolutionized against Spain; and still later, Texas revolutionized against Mexico. In my view, just so far as she carried her revolution, by obtaining the actual , willing or unwilling, submission of the people, so far , the country was hers, and no farther. Now sir, for the purpose of obtaining the very best evidence, as to whether Texas had actually carried her revolution, to the place where the hostilities of the present war commenced, let the President answer the interrogatories, I proposed, as before mentioned, or some other similar ones. Let him answer, fully, fairly, and candidly. Let him answer with facts , and not with arguments. Let him remember he sits where Washington sat, and so remembering, let him answer, as Washington would answer. As a nation should not, and the Almighty will not, be evaded, so let him attempt no evasion---no equivocation. And if, so answering, he can show that the soil was ours, where the first blood of the war was shed---that it was not within an inhabited country, or, if within such, that the inhabitants had submitted themselves to the civil authority of Texas, or of the United States, and that the same is true of the site of Fort Brown, then I am with him for his justification. In that case I, shall be most happy to reverse the vote I gave the other day. I have a selfish motive for desiring that the President may do this. I expect to give some votes, in connection with the war, which, without his so doing, will be of doubtful propriety in my own judgment, but which will be free from the doubt if he does so. But if he can not, or will not do this---if on any pretence, or no pretence, he shall refuse or omit it, then I shall be fully convinced, of what I more than suspect already, that he is deeply conscious of being in the wrong---that he feels the blood of this war, like the blood of Abel, is crying to Heaven against him.  That originally having some strong motive---what, I will not stop now to give my opinion concerning---to involve the two countries in a war, and trusting to escape scrutiny, by fixing the public gaze upon the exceeding brightness of military glory---that attractive rainbow, that rises in showers of blood---that serpent's eye, that charms to destroy---he plunged into it, and has swept, on and on , till, disappointed in his calculation of the ease with which Mexico might be subdued, he now finds himself, he knows not where. How like the half insane mumbling of a fever-dream, is the whole war part of his late message! At one time telling us that Mexico has nothing whatever, that we can get, but teritory; at another, showing us how we can support the war, by levying contributions on Mexico. At one time, urging the national honor, the security of the future, the prevention of foreign interference, and even, the good of Mexico herself, as among the objects of the war; at another, telling us, that ``to reject indemnity, by refusing to accept a cession of teritory, would be to abandon all our just demands, and to wage the war, bearing all it's expenses, without a purpose or definite object[.] '' So then, the national honor, security of the future, and every thing but teritorial indemnity, may be considered the no-purposes , and indefinite , objects of the war! But, having it now settled that teritorial indemnity is the only object, we are urged to seize, by legislation here, all that he was content to take, a few months ago, and the whole province of lower California to boot, and to still carry on the war---to take all we are fighting for, and still fight on. Again, the President is resolved, under all circumstances, to have full teritorial indemnity for the expenses of the war; but he forgets to tell us how we are to get the excess , after those expenses shall have surpassed the value of the whole of the Mexican teritory. So again, he insists that the separate national existence of Mexico, shall be maintained; but he does not tell us how this can be done, after we shall have taken all her teritory. Lest the questions, I here suggest, be considered speculative merely, let me be indulged a moment in trying [to] show they are not. The war has gone on some twenty months; for the expenses of which, together with an inconsiderable old score, the President now claims about one half of the Mexican teritory; and that, by far the better half, so far as concerns our ability to make any thing out of it. It is comparatively uninhabited; so that we could establish land offices in it, and raise some money in that way. But the other half is already inhabited, as I understand it, tolerably densely for the nature of the country; and all it's lands, or all that are valuable, already appropriated as private property. How then are we to make any thing out of these lands with this incumbrance on them? or how, remove the incumbrance? I suppose no one will say we should kill the people, or drive them out, or make slaves of them, or even confiscate their property. How then can we make much out of this part of the teritory? If the prosecution of the war has, in expenses, already equalled the better half of the country, how long it's future prosecution, will be in equalling, the less valuable half, is not a speculative , b question, pressing closely upon us. And yet it is a question which the President seems to never have thought of. As to the mode of terminating the war, and securing peace, the President is equally wandering and indefinite. First, it is to be done by a more vigorous prossecution of the war in the vital parts of the enemies country; and, after apparantly, talking himself tired, on this point, the President drops down into a half despairing tone, and tells us that ``with a people distracted and divided by contending factions, and a government subject to constant changes, by successive revolutions, the continued success of our arms may fail to secure a satisfactory peace [.]'' Then he suggests the propriety of wheedling the Mexican people to desert the counsels of their own leaders, and trusting in our protection, to set up a government from which we can secure a satisfactory peace; telling us, that `` this may become the only mode of obtaining such a peace .'' But soon he falls into doubt of this too; and then drops back on to the already half abandoned ground of ``more vigorous prossecution.[''] All this shows that the President is, in no wise, satisfied with his own positions. First he takes up one, and in attempting to argue us into it, he argues himself out of it; then seizes another, and goes through the same process; and then, confused at being able to think of nothing same process; and then, confused at being able to think of nothing new, he snatches up the old one again, which he has some time before cast off. His mind, tasked beyond it's power, is running hither and thither, like some tortured creature, on a burning surface, finding no position, on which it can settle down, and be at ease. Again, it is a singular omission in this message, that it, no where intimates when the President expects the war to terminate. At it's beginning, Genl. Scott  was, by this same President, driven into disfavor, if not disgrace, for intimating that peace could not be conquered in less than three or four months. But now, at the end of about twenty months, during which time our arms have given us the most splendid successes---every department, and every part, land and water, officers and privates, regulars and volunteers, doing all that men could do, and hundreds of things which it had ever before been thought men could not do,---after all this, this same President gives us a long message, without showing us, that, as to the end , he himself, has, even an immaginary conception. As I have before said, he knows not where he is. He is a bewildered, confounded, and miserably perplexed man. God grant he may be able to show, there is not something about his conscience, more painful than all his mental perplexity!

Bill IntroducedIn United States House of Representatives Concerning Land Bounties
[January 17, 1848]
A bill to amend an act entitled ``An act to raise for a limited time, an additional military force and for other purposes'' Approved, February 11th. 1847. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America, in Congress assembled: That hereafter the legal holder of any land warrant issued under the provision of the ninth section of the act to which this an amendment, may locate the same at any land office of the United States, in one body, or in parcels, (in conformity to the legal subdivisions of the public lands and subject to the present limitations in relation to the purchase of small quantities of land with money---) upon any of the public lands, within the land district of such office, then subject to private entry, or to which such warrant-holder may, at the time of location, have a legal right of pre-emption. Provided, that the whole right of location under any one warrant, shall be exhausted at one time.

Report in United States House of RepresentativesConcerning Petition of William Fuller and Orlando Saltmarsh
January 19, 1848
The Committee on Post Offices and Post Roads, to whom was refered the petition of Messrs Saltmarsh & Fuller, report: That, as proved to their satisfaction, the mail routes from Milledgeville to Athens, and from Warrenton to Decatur, in the State of Georgia, (numbered 2366 and 2380) were let to Reeside & Avery, at $1300 per annum for the former and $1500 for the latter, for the term of four years to commence on the 1st day of January 1835. That previous to the time for commencing the service, Re[e]side sold his interest therein to Avery.  That on the 11th. of May 1835, Avery sold the whole to these petitioners, Saltmarsh & Fuller, to take effect from the beginning---Jany. 1- 1835. That at this time, the Assistant Post master General, being called on for that purpose, consented to the transfer of the contracts from Re[e]side & Avery to these petitioners, and promised, to have proper entries of the transfer made on the books of the Department, which, however, was neglected to be done. That the petitioners, supposing all was right, in good faith commenced the transportation of the mail on these routes, and, after difficulty arose, still trusting that all would be made right, continued the service till Decr. 1-1837. That they performed the service to the entire satisfaction of the Department, and have never been paid any thing for it, except.  That the difficulty occurred as follows: Mr. Barry  was Post master General at the times of making the contracts and the attempted transfer of them. Mr. Kendall  succeeded Mr. Barry, and finding Reeside apparently in debt to the Department, and these contracts still standing in the names of Reeside & Avery, refused to pay for the service under them, otherwise than by credits to Re[e]side; afterwards, however, he divided the compensation, still crediting one half to Reeside, and directing the other to be paid to the order of Avery, who, disclaimed all right to it. After discontinuing the service, these petitioners, supposing they might have legal redress against Avery, brought suit against him, in New-Orleans; in which suit they failed, on the ground that Avery had complied with his contract, having done so much towards the transfer, as they had accepted, and been satisfied with. Still later, the Department sued Reeside on his supposed indebtedness, and by a verdict of the jury it was determined, that the Department was indebted to him, in a sum much beyond all the credits given him on the account above stated. Under these circumstances [the] committee consider the petitioners clearly entitled to relief; and they report a bill accordingly; lest, however, there should be some mistake as to the amount which they have already received, we so frame it as that, by adjustment at the Department they may be paid so much as remains unpaid for service actually perf 11th. 1835; but the evidence on this point being very vague, they forbear to report in favour of allowing it.

To Jonathan R. Diller
Friend Diller: Washington Jany. 19 1848
Your letter of the 27th. Decr. was received only the day before yesterday. The very best I can do with your case, I will. Send to me just as soon as you can, the affidavit of one of your clerks, showing the number of mails you receive per week; the number you send away per week; the number of pounds weight of mails you handle daily, besides that stopping at your own office; the number of hands, including yourself, you have to constantly employ; and what you pay them; how many hours out of the twentyfour you are obliged to be up and at work; and how much you have to pay annually, besides clerk-hire, for matters connected with the office, which the Govt. does not allow you for. Whether Govt. allows for room-rent, candles, and fuel, I dont know, but if it does not, these will fall in the item last mentioned. If, in this way you can show that your compensation is too small, I think I can get it increased; but the bare fact that you get less than you used to do, will not enable me to get along. We have had one such case, which was sneered out of court. I am really interested for you, & wish you to lose no time in doing as I tell you. Show this letter to Logan, and get him to frame the affidavit---adding any thing that may occur to you or him which I may have forgotten. Tell Hickox  I received his claim, and will do the best with it [I] can; but that I fear I can not get along with it. I am kept very busy here; and one thing that perplexes me more than most any thing else, are the cases of whigs calling on me to get them appointments to places in the army, from the President. There are two great obstacles in the way which they do not seem to understand---first, the President has no such appointments to give---and secondly, if he had, he could hardly be expected to give them to whigs, at the solicitation of a whig Member of Congress. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William H. Herndon
Washington, January 19, 1848.
Dear William: Inclosed you find a letter of Louis W. Chandler. What is wanted is that you shall ascertain whether the claim upon the note described has received any dividend in the Probate Court of Christian County, where the estate of Mr. Overton Williams has been administered on. If nothing is paid on it, withdraw the note and send it to me, so that Chandler can see the indorser of it. At all events write me all about it, till I can somehow get it off my hands. I have already been bored more than enough about it; not the least of which annoyance is his cursed, unreadable, and ungodly handwriting. I have made a speech, a copy of which I will send you by next mail. Yours as ever, A. LINCOLN.

To Samuel D. Marshall
Dear Sam: Washington, Jany. 22. 1848
Your letter of the 15th. is received: Your letter to me concerning our Dorman Case  was also received, while I was very busy preparing to start on here: I handed the letter to Judge Logan and extorted a special promise from him to examine the case & write you. Although I know the Judge to be growing somewhat negligent, I did not doubt that, from the peculiarity of this case, and his very assuring promise, he would attend to it. I know he intended to do it; but I suppose he has forgotten it. I know nothing that I can here do in the matter. As to the matter of your lost horse, I will look into it, & do something if I can. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To. J. M. McCalla
[January 24, 1848]
Will Mr. McCalla please examine these papers, and inform me whether any thing, and if so, what, can be done in the case? Jany 24. 1848 A. LINCOLN. of HR.

To William Thomas
[c. January 28, 1848]
Not perceiving that these letters can aid me any in your business, and thinking possibly the Solicitors letter to you may miscarry, and not seeing how I can do any thing till a further hearing from you, I enclose them to you. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN Hon. Wm. Thomas.

To J. M. McCalla
Mr. J. M. McCalla: Washington, Dear Sir: Jany. 29. 1848
A young man by the name of Andrew Hodge, went to Mexico as a volunteer in Capt. Elkin's  company in the 4th. Regiment of Illinois volunteers, command[ed] by Col. Baker.  He died somewhere on the Rio Grande in the fall of 1846. His father, W. H. Hodge,  wishes to draw the arrearage of his pay, and also to get his land warrant. He writes me that he sent the papers to your office last summer, and received a note from you acknowledging the receipt of them, since when, he has heard nothing about the matter. Will you please inform me what, if any thing, I can do to advance the matter? Very Respectfully A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Herndon
Dear William: Washington Feb. 1- 1848
Your letter of the 19th. ult. was received last night, and for which I am much obliged. The only thing in it that I wish to talk to you about at once, is that, because of my vote for Mr. Ashmun's  amendment, you fear that you and I disagree about the war. I regret this, not because of any fear we shall remain disagreed, after you shall have read this letter, but because, if you misunderstand, I fear other good friends will also. That vote affirms that the war was unnecessarily and unconstitutionally commenced by the President; and I will stake my life, that if you had been in my place, you would have voted just as I did. Would you have voted what you felt you knew to be a lie? I know you would not. Would you have gone out of the House---skulked the vote? I expect not. If you had skulked one vote, you would have had to skulk many more, before the end of the session. Richardson's  resolutions, introduced before I made any move, or gave any vote upon the subject, make the direct question of the justice of the war; so that no man can be silent if he would. You are compelled to speak; and your only alternative is to tell the truth or tell a lie . I can not doubt which you would do. This vote, has nothing to do, in determining my votes on the questions of supplies. I have always intended, and still intend, to vote supplies; perhaps not in the precise form recommended by the President, but in a better form for all purposes, except locofoco party purposes. It is in this particular you seem to be mistaken. The locos are untiring in their effort to make the impression that all who vote supplies, or take part in the war, do, of necessity, approve the Presidents conduct in the beginning of it; but the whigs have, from the beginning, made and kept the distinction between the two. In the very first act, nearly all the whigs voted against the preamble declaring that war existed by the act of Mexico, and yet nearly all of them voted for the supplies. As to the whig men who have participated in the war, so far as they have spoken to my hearing, they do not hesitate to denounce, as unjust, the Presidents conduct in the beginning of the war. They do not suppose that such denunciation, is dictated by undying hatred to them, as the Register would have it believed. There are two such whigs on this floor, Col. Haskell,  and Major Gaines  . The former, fought as a Col. by the side of Col. Baker  at Cerro Gordo, and stands side by side with me, in the vote, that you seem to be dissatisfied with. The latter, the history of whose capture with Cassius Clay, you well know, had not arrived here when that vote was given; but as I understand, he stands ready to give just such a vote, whenever an occasion shall present. Baker too, who is now here, says the truth is undoubtedly that way, and whenever he shall speak out, he will say so. Col. Donaphin [ sic ]  too, the favourite whig of Missouri, and who over ran all Northern Mexico, on his return home in a public speech at St. Louis, condemned the administration in relation to the war as I remember. G. T. M Davis,  who has been through almost the whole war, declares in favour of Mr. Clay, from which I infer that he adopts the sentiments of Mr. Clay, generally at least. On the other hand, I have heard of but one whig, who has been to the war, attempting to justify the President's conduct. That one is Capt. Bishop,  editor of the Charleston Courier, and a very clever fellow. I do not mean this letter for the public, but for you. Before it reaches you, you will have seen and read my pamphlet speech,  and perhaps, scared anew, by it. After you get over your scare, read it over again, sentence by sentence, and tell me honestly what you think of it. I condensed all I could for fear of being cut off by the hour rule, and when I got through, I had spoke but 45 minutes. Yours forever A. LINCOLN

To William H. Herndon
Dear William: Washington, Feb: 2. 1848
I just take up my pen to say, that Mr. Stephens  of Georgia, a little slim, pale-faced, consumptive man, with a voice like Logan's  has just concluded the very best speech, of an hour's length, I ever heard. My old, withered, dry eyes, are full of tears yet. If he writes it out any thing like he delivered it, our people shall see a good many copies of it.  Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Andrew McCallen
Friend McCallen: Washington, Feb. 4. 1848
Yours of the 20th. Jany. is received. There is now some probability of peace; but, should the war go on, I think volunteers, with the right of electing their own officers will be voted, but that no more regulars, will be voted. Until Congress shall act, of course, nothing can be done towards getting your Regiment into the service. Whenever it shall act I shall be happy to assist you in any way I can. Yours truly A. LINCOLN P. S. Dont pay postage on letters to me. I am entitled to them free. A. L.

To Taylor Committee
House of Representatives, Gentlemen: Washington, Feb. 9, 1848.
Your letter inviting me to attend a meeting on the 22d instant, at Philadelphia, to nominate General Taylor for the Presidency, subject to the decision of a National Convention, has been received. It will not be convenient for me to attend,  yet I take the occasion to say, I am decidedly in favor of General Taylor as the Whig candidate for the next Presidency. I am the only Whig member of Congress from Illinois, so that the meeting will probably hear nothing from that State, unless it be from me through the medium of this letter. For this reason I think proper to say, that during the last summer a convention was held in that State for the purpose of amending her constitution; that, in that convention, there were, as I remember, some more than seventy Whig members; that, at a meeting of those Whig members, they nominated General Taylor for the Presidency; and that, with the exception of a very few, (not more than six I believe,) they subscribed their names to that nomination and published it to the world. These delegates of course were not elected to nominate a candidate for the Presidency, nor did they, in the matter, assume to act in any capacity other than as so many individuals expressing their own preferences; still, coming from all parts of the State as they did, their action, together with other facts falling within my observation, leave no doubt in my mind that the preference of the Whigs of the State is the same. Those Whig delegates said nothing as to a National Convention, as far as I can remember, nor has any thing transpired since enabling me to determine what is the disposition of the Whigs of Illinois on the subject; still it is my expectation that they will send delegates to the Convention, as I think it will be proper that they should. Very respectfully, A. LINCOLN.

To Josephus Hewett
Dear Hewett: Washington, Feb. 13. 1848.
Your whig representative from Mississippi, P. W. Tompkins,  has just shown me a letter of yours to him. I am jealous because you did not write to me. Perhaps you have forgotten me. Dont you remember a long black fellow who rode on horseback with you from Tremont to Springfield nearly ten years ago, swiming your horses over the Mackinaw on the trip? Well, I am that same one fellow yet. I was once of your opinion, expressed in your letter, that presidential electors should be dispensed with; but a more thorough knowledge of the causes that first introduced them, has made me doubt. Those causes were briefly these. The convention that framed the constitution had this difficulty: the small states wished to so frame the new government as that they might be equal to the large ones regardless of the inequality of population; the large ones insisted on equality in proportion to population. They compromised it, by basing the House of Representatives on population , and the Senate on states regardless of population; and the executive on both principles, by electors in each state, equal in numbers to her senators and representatives. Now, throw away the machinery of electors, and the compromise is broken up, and the whole yielded to the principle of the large states. There is one thing more. In the slave states, you have representatives, and consequently, electors, partly upon the basis of your black population, which would be swept away by the change you seem to think desireable. Have you ever reflected on these things? But to come to the main point, I wish you to know that I have made a speech in congress, and that I want you to be enlightened by reading it; to further which object, I send a copy of the speech by this mail. For old acquaintance sake, if for nothing else, be sure to write me on receiving this. I was very near forgetting to tell you that on my being introduced to Genl. Quitman,  and telling him I was from Springfield, Illinois, he at once remarked ``Then you are acquainted with my valued friend Hewett of Natchez,'' and on being assured I was, he said such things about you as I like to hear said about my own valued friends. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To William H. Herndon
Dear William: Washington, Feb. 15. 1848
Your letter of the 29th. Jany. was received last night. Being exclusively a constitutional argument, I wish to submit some reflections upon it in the same spirit of kindness that I know actuates you. Let me first state what I understand to be your position. It is, that if it shall become necessary, to repel invasion , the President may, without violation of the Constitution, cross the line, and invade the teritory of another country; and that whether such necessity exists in any given case, the President is to be the sole judge. Before going further, consider well whether this is, or is not your position. If it is, it is a position that neither the President himself, nor any friend of his, so far as I know, has ever taken. Their only positions are first, that the soil was ours where hostilities commenced, and second, that whether it was rightfully ours or not, Congress had annexed it , and the President, for that reason was bound to defend it, both of which are as clearly proved to be false in fact, as you can prove that your house is not mine. That soil was not ours; and Congress did not annex or attempt to annex it. But to return to your position: Allow the President to invade a neighboring nation, whenever he shall deem it necessary to repel an invasion, and you allow him to do so, whenever he may choose to say he deems it necessary for such purpose---and you allow him to make war at pleasure. Study to see if you can fix any limit to his power in this respect, after you have given him so much as you propose. If, to-day, he should choose to say he thinks it necessary to invade Canada, to prevent the British from invading us, how could you stop him? You may say to him, ``I see no probability of the British invading us'' but he will say to you ``be silent; I see it, if you dont.'' The provision of the Constitution giving the war-making power to Congress, was dictated, as I understand it, by the following reasons. Kings had always been involving and impoverishing their people in wars, pretending generally, if not always, that the good of the people was the object. This, our Convention understood to be the most oppressive of all Kingly oppressions; and they resolved to so frame the Constitution that no one man should hold the power of bringing this oppression upon us. But your view destroys the whole matter, and places our President where kings have always stood. Write soon again. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Halsey O. or Amos L. Merriman
Dear Merriman: Washington, Feb. 16. 1848
Your letter, asking me to procure passports, has been received. I have just been to Mr. Buchanan,  who turned me over to an understrapper, which understrapper, suspended the application on the ground that the affidavit of the applicant is not sufficient evidence of naturalization. He gave me a printed circular showing exactly what is to be done, which I transmit to you, together with some extra copies to be kept for future use. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Thomas S. Flournoy
Hon: T. S. Florney, H. R. Feb: 17. 1848-
Dear Sir: In answer to your enquiries, I have to say I am in favor of Gen: Taylor as the whig candidate for the Presidency because I am satisfied we can elect him, that he would give us a whig administration, and that we can not elect any other whig. In Illinois, his being our candidate, would certainly give us one additional member of Congress, if not more; and probably would give us the electoral vote of the state. That with him, we can, in that state, make great inroads among the rank and file of the democrats, to my mind is certain; but the majority against us there, is so great, that I can no more than express my belief that we can carry the state. Very respectfully A. LINCOLN

To William H. Young
Dear Sir: Washington---Feb. 17, 1848.
Your letter in relation to various claims for bounty lands, has been received, and laid before the Commissioner of Pensions. So soon as he shall examine them and give me an answer, I will write you, enclosing it. Hurra for Gen: Taylor. Yours truly Wm. H. Young A LINCOLN.

To Usher F. Linder
Dear Linder: Washington, Feb. 20. 1848-
In law it is good policy to never plead what you need not, lest you oblige yourself to prove what you can not. Reflect on this well before you proceed. The application I mean to make of this rule is, that you should simply go for Genl. Taylor; because by this, you can take some democrats, and lose no whigs; but if you go also for Mr. Polk on the origin and mode of prossecuting the war, you will still take some democrats, but you will lose more whigs, so that in the sum of the opperation you will be loser. This is at least my opinion; and if you will look round, I doubt, if you do not discover such to be the fact amongst your own neighbors. Further than this: By justifying Mr. Polk's mode of prossecuting the war, you put yourself in opposition to Genl. Taylor himself, for we all know he has declared for, and, in fact originated, the defensive line policy. You know I mean this in kindness, and wish it to be confidential. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Noah W. Matheny
Dear Noah: [c. February 21, 1848]
Please forward the Receivers receipt to Judge Young as commissioner. A. LINCOLN

Fragment: What General Taylor Ought to Say
[March ?] 1848
The question of a national bank is at rest; were I President I should not urge it's reagitation upon Congress; but should Congress see fit to pass an act to establish such an institution, I should not arrest it by the veto, unless I should consider it subject to some constitutional objection, from which I believe the two former banks to have been free. It appears to me that the national debt created by the war, renders a modification of the existing tariff indispensable; and when it shall be modified, I should be pleased to see it adjusted with a due reference to the protection of our home industry. The particulars, it appears to me, must and should be left to the untramelled discretion of Congress. As to the Mexican war, I still think the defensive line policy the best to terminate it. In a final treaty of peace, we shall probably be under a sort of necessity of taking some teritory; but it is my desire that we shall not acquire any extending so far South, as to enlarge and agrivate the distracting question of slavery. Should I come into the presidency before these questions shall be settled, I should act in relation to them in accordance with the views here expressed. Finally, were I president, I should desire the legislation of the country to rest with Congress, uninfluenced by the executive in it's origin or progress, and undisturbed by the veto unless in very special and clear cases.

To Jesse W. Fell
Friend Fell. Washington March 1, 1848
Your kind letter of the 7th. Feb: enclosing a petition for peace, was received a day or two ago. I shall present it at the proper time. It now seems to be understood on all hands that the war is over---that the treaty sent in will be ratified. I will try to get the time to write you a longer letter soon; but I am really too much hurried to do so now. Yours as ever, J. W. Fell A. LINCOLN. Payson Ills.

To Richard S. Thomas
Friend Richard: Washington March 1, 1848.
Your letter of the 12th. Feb., toegther with the petition for a mail route was received last night. Strange it was on the road so long. I shall present the petition,  and give it my best attention. Your second letter was received; and I thought I had answered it. I am not a candidate for re-nomination or election. Excuse the shortness of this letter; I am really very much hurried. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN R. S. Thomas, Virginia, Ills.

To Ignatius R. Simms
Major Simms Washington, Dear Sir: March 4- 1848-
Whenever I am directing documents to persons at Jacksonville, I am annoyed at not being able to remember the christian name of your son who formerly resided at Metamora in Woodford county.  I esteem him as one of my best friends; and you will oblige me by handing him this letter, and telling him to write me at once about any thing he pleases, so that I can get his name right. It is considered doubtful whether the Senate will ratify the treaty now under advisement; but whether they shall or not, all hands seem to agree that the war is substantially ended. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Solomon Lincoln
Mr. Solomon Lincoln, Washington, Dear Sir: March 6- 1848
Your letter to Mr. Hale,  in which you do me the honor of making some kind enquiries concerning me, has been handed me by Mr. Hale, with the request that I should give you the desired information. I was born Feb: 12th. 1809 in Hardin county, Kentucky. My father's name is Thomas ; my grandfather's was Abraham ,---the same of [ sic ] my own. My grandfather went from Rockingham county in Virginia, to Kentucky, about the year 1782; and, two years afterwards, was killed by the indians. We have a vague tradition, that my great-grand father went from Pennsylvania to Virginia; and that he was a quaker. Further back than this, I have never heard any thing. It may do no harm to say that ``Abraham'' and ``Mordecai'' are common names in our family; while the name ``Levi'' so common among the Lincolns of New England, I have not known in any instance among us. Owing to my father being left an orphan at the age of six years, in poverty, and in a new country, he became a wholly uneducated man; which I suppose is the reason why I know so little of our family history. I believe I can say nothing more that would at all interest you. If you shall be able to trace any connection between yourself and me, or, in fact, whether you shall or not, I should be pleased to have a line from you at any time. Very respectfully A. LINCOLN

Report to United States House of Representatives Concerning H.M. Barney
March 9, 1848
Mr. LINCOLN, from the Committee on the Post Office and Post Roads, made the following REPORT: The Committee on the Post Office and Post Roads, to whom was referred the petition of H.M. Barney, postmaster at Brimfield, Peoria county, Illinois, report : That they have been satisfied by evidence, that on the 15th of December, 1847, said petitioner had his store, with some fifteen hundred dollars worth of goods, together with all the papers of the post office, entirely destroyed by fire; and that the specie funds of the office were melted down, partially lost, and partially destroyed; that his large individual loss entirely precludes the idea of embezzlement; that the balances due the department of former quarters has been only about twenty-five dollars; and that owing to the destruction of the papers, the exact amount due for the quarter ending December 31st, 1847, cannot be ascertained. They therefore report a joint resolution, releasing said petitioner from paying anything for the quarter last mentioned. 

To Usher F. Linder
Friend Linder: Washington, March 22- 1848-
Yours of the 15th. is just received, as was a day or two ago, one from Dunbar  on the same subject. Although I address this to you alone, I intend it for you [,] Dunbar, and Bishop,  and wish you to show it to them. In Dunbar's letter, and in Bishop's paper, it is assumed that Mr. Crittenden's  position on the war is correct. Well, so I think. Please wherein is my position different from his? Has he ever approved the President's conduct in the beginning of the war, or his mode or objects in prossecuting it? Never. He condemns both. True, he votes supplies, and so do I. What, then, is the difference, except that he is a great man and I am a small one? Towards the close of your letter you ask three questions, the first of which is ``Would it not have been just as easy to have elected Genl. Taylor without opposing the war as by opposing it?'' I answer, I suppose it would, if we could do neither ---could be silent on the question; but the Locofocos here will not let the whigs be silent . Their very first act in congress was to present a preamble declaring that war existed by the act of Mexico, and the whigs were obliged to vote on it---and this policy is followed up by them; so that they are compelled to speak and their only option is whether they will, when they do speak, tell the truth , or tell a foul, villainous, and bloody falsehood. But, while on this point, I protest against your calling the condemnation of Polk ``opposing the war.'' In thus assuming that all must be opposed to the war, even though they vote supplies, who do not not [ sic ] endorse Polk, with due deference I say I think you fall into one of the artfully set traps of Locofocoism. Your next question is ``And suppose we could succeed in proving it a wicked and unconstitutional war, do we not thereby strip Taylor and Scott of more than half their laurels?'' Whether it would so strip them is not matter of demonstration, but of opinion only; and my opinion is that it would not; but as your opinion seems to be different, let us call in some others as umpire. There are in this H.R. some more than forty members who support Genl. Taylor for the Presidency, every one of whom has voted that the war was ``unnecessarily and unconstitutionally commenced by the President'' every one of whom has spoken to the same effect, who has spoken at all, and not one of whom supposes he thereby strips Genl. of any laurels. More than this; two of these, Col. Haskell  and Major Gaines,  themselves fought in Mexico; and yet they vote and speak just as the rest of us do, without ever dreaming that they ``strip'' themselves of any laurels. There may be others, but Capt. Bishop is the only intelligent whig who has been to Mexico, that I have heard of taking different ground. Your third question is ``And have we as a party, ever gained any thing, by falling in company with abolitionists?'' Yes. We gained our only national victory by falling in company with them in the election of Genl. Harrison. Not that we fell into abolition doctrines; but that we took up a man whose position induced them to join us in his election. But this question is not so significant as a question , as it is as a charge of abolitionism against those who have chosen to speak their minds against the President. As you and I perhaps would again differ as to the justice of this charge, let us once more call in our umpire. There are in this H.R. whigs from the slave states as follows: one from Louisiana, one from Mississippi, one from Florida, two from Alabama, four from Georgia, five from Tennessee, six from Kentucky, six from North Carolina, six from Virginia, four from Maryland and one from Delaware, making thirtyseven in all, and all slave-holders, every one of whom votes the commencement of the war ``unnecessary and unconstitutional'' and so falls subject to your charge of abolitionism! `` En passant '' these are all Taylor men, except one in Tenn. two in Ky, one in N.C. and one in Va. Besides which we have one in Ills---two in Ia, three in Ohio, five in Penn. four in N.J. and one in Conn. While this is less than half the whigs of the H.R. it is three times as great as the strength of any other one candidate. You are mistaken in your impression that any one has communicated expressions of yours and Bishop's to me. In my letter to Dunbar, I only spoke from the impression made by seeing in the paper that you and he were, ``in the degree, though not in the extreme'' on the same tack with Latshaw.  Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To David Lincoln
Mr. David Lincoln Washington, Dear Sir: March 24th. 1848.
Your very worthy representative, Gov. McDowell  has given me your name and address, and, as my my [ sic ] father was born in Rockingham, from whence his father, Abraham Lincoln, emigrated to Kentucky, about the year 1782, I have concluded to address you to ascertain whether we are not of the same family. I shall be much obliged, if you will write me, telling me, whether you, in any way, know any thing of my grandfather, what relation you are to him, and so on. Also, if you know, where your family came from, when they settled in Virginia, tracing them back as far as your knowledge extends. Very respectfully A. LINCOLN

To Solomon Lincoln
Mr. Solomon Lincoln Washington, Dear Sir: March 24- 1848
Yours of the 21st. is received. I shall not be able to answer your interrogatories very fully; I will, however, do the best I can. I have mentioned that my grandfather's name was Abraham. He had, as I think I have heard, four brothers, Isaac, Jacob, Thomas, and John. He had three sons, Mordecai, Josiah, and Thomas, the last, my father. My uncle Mordecai, had three sons, Abraham, James, and Mordecai. Uncle Josiah had several daughters, and an only son, Thomas. My father has an only child, myself, of course. This is all I know certainly on the subject of names; it is, however, my father's understanding that, Abraham [,] Mordecai, and Thomas are old family names of ours. The reason I did not mention Thomas as a family name in my other letter was because it is so very common a name, as to prove but little, if any thing, in the way of identification. Since I wrote you, it occurred to me to enquire of Gov. McDowell,  who represents the district in Virginia, including Rockingham, whether he knew persons of our name there. He informs he does; though none very intimately except one, an old man by the christian name of David. That he is of our family I have no doubt. I now address him a letter, making such enquiries as suggest themselves; and, when I shall receive an answer, I will communicate to you, any thing that may seem pertinent to your object. Very truly yours A. LINCOLN

Remarks in United States House of Representatives Concerning Military Bounty Lands
March 29, 1848
Mr. LINCOLN said, if there was a general desire on the part of the House to pass the bill now,  he should be glad to have it done---concurring, as he did generally, with the gentleman from Arkansas, [Mr. JOHNSON,]  that the postponement might jeopard the safety of the proposition. If, however, a reference was to be made, he wished to make a very few remarks in relation to the several subjects desired by the gentlemen to be embraced in amendments to the ninth section of the act of the last session of Congress. The first amendment desired by members of this House had for its only object to give bounty lands to such persons as had served for a time as privates, but had never been discharged as such, because promoted to office. That subject, and no other, was embraced in this bill. There were some others who desired, while they were legislating on this subject, that they should also give bounty lands to the volunteers of the war of 1812. His friend from Maryland said there were no such men. He (Mr. L.) did not say there were many, but he was very confident there were some. His friend from Kentucky near him [Mr. GAINES] told him he himself was one. There was still another proposition touching this matter: that was, that persons entitled to bounty land should by law be entitled to locate these lands in parcels, and not be required to locate them in one body, as was provided by the existing law. Now, he had carefully drawn up a bill  embracing these three separate proposition, which he intended to propose as a substitute for all these bills in the House, or in Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union, at some suitable time. If there was a disposition on the part of the House to act at once on this separate proposition, he repeated that, with the gentleman from Arkansas, he should prefer it, lest they should lose all. But if there was to be a reference, he desired to introduce his bill embracing the three propositions, thus enabling the committee and the House to act at the same time, whether favorably or unfavorably, upon all. He inquired whether an amendment was now in order? The SPEAKER replied in the negative.

To Richard S. Thomas
Dear Richard: Washington, March 30, 1848
Having a few leisure moments, I employ them to say a word about your petition concerning school lands. The petition was referred to the Land Committee, of which I am not a member; so that, while in committee, I can have no direct agency in the matter. McClernand  of our state, is on that committee; and he told me yesterday, or the day before, that the committee had unanimously determined to do nothing in the matter, so far as concerns the townships which have entire sixteenth sections, but which are of little or no value; because to enter upon this, would be to break up the entire present system of school lands throughout the United States, which would be immensely inconvenient, and which, after all, could never result in any thing much nearer equality than the present system. He says the committee are for the petition, so far as concerns fractional townships, which have no sixteenth section, or only fractional ones, containing less than a thirtysixth of the land of the township. He says they think there is already an old law concerning the case; and that they are investigating it, and if necessary to effect the object, they will report a bill accordingly. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN.

To David Lincoln
Dear Sir, Washington, April 2nd. 1848
Last evening I was much gratified by receiving and reading your letter of the 30th. of March. There is no longer any doubt that your uncle Abraham, and my grandfather was the same man. His family did reside in Washington county, Kentucky, just as you say you found them in 1801 or 2. The oldest son, uncle Mordecai, near twenty years ago, removed from Kentucky to Hancock county, Illinois, where within a year or two afterwards, he died, and where his surviving children now live. His two sons there now are Abraham & Mordecai; and their Post-office is ``La Harp [e].'' Uncle Josiah, farther back than my recollection, went from Kentucky to Blue River in Indiana. I have not heard from him in a great many years, and whether he is still living I can not say. My recollection of what I have heard is, that he has several daughters & only one son, Thomas. Their Post-office is ``Corydon, Harrisson county, Indiana.'' My father, Thomas, is still living, in Coles county Illinois, being in the 71st. year of his age. His Post-office is Charleston, Coles co. Ill. I am his only child. I am now in my 40th. year; and I live in Springfield, Sangamon county, Illinois. This is the outline of my grandfather's family in the West. I think my father has told me that grandfather had four brothers, Isaac, Jacob, John and Thomas. Is that correct? and which of them was your father? Are any of them alive? I am quite sure that Isaac resided on Wata [u] ga, near a point where Virginia and Tennessee join; and that he has been dead more than twenty, perhaps thirty, years. Also, that Thomas removed to Kentucky, near Lexington, where he died a good while ago. What was your grandfather's christian name? Was he or not, a Quaker? About what time did he emigrate from Berks county, Pa. to Virginia? Do you know any thing of your family (or rather I may now say, our family) farther back than your grandfather? If it be not too much trouble to you, I shall be much pleased to hear from you again. Be assured I will call on you, should any thing ever bring me near you. I shall give your respects to Gov. McDowell,  as you desire. Very truly yours--- A. LINCOLN---

Discussion in United States House of Representatives
April 3, 1848
Mr. LINCOLN moved to suspend the rules of the House to take up the joint resolution from the Senate relative to contracts for the purchase of hemp for the use of the navy, for the purpose of referring it to the Committee on Naval Affairs. Mr. HOUSTON,  of Alabama, suggested to the gentleman from Illinois that he would accomplish his object by modifying his motion so as to embrace all the bills and resolutions from the Senate lying on the Speaker's table. Mr. LINCOLN replied to the gentleman from Alabama, that he was aware of that fact when he made the motion. Mr. HOUSTON would then inquire whether the motion was susceptible of amendment. No reply was heard. If any, it was presumed to be in the negative. The SPEAKER announced the question to be on the motion of Mr. LINCOLN. 

To Jesse Lynch
Dear Sir: Washington, April 10- 1848-
Your letter of the 27th. of March is received. I went to the Patent office with it this morning. They tell me that no patent has [been] issued to any body on any application made as late as the first of July last. Mr. Jones  is dead---died a few weeks ago. The officers say he was trust-worthy. If you write again, mention the names of the applicants, as I have mislaid your former letter. I am almost too busy to undertake an agency, besides which, I shall have to leave before the business can be got through with; still, if you choose, I will try to get any business for you into the hands of some one having the reputation of a faithful agent. On the same day I received your letter, I also received one from another man in Magnolia, which contrasts very curiously with what you say about Gen: Taylor. He says he knows ten men in Magnolia, who voted for Mr. Clay, that can not be got to vote for Gen. Taylor, under any circumstances. I am sorry to hear what he says, and glad to hear what you say. Our only chance is with Taylor. I go for him, not because I think he would make a better president than Clay, but because I think he would make a better one than Polk, or Cass, or Buchanan, or any such creatures, one of whom is sure to be elected, if he is not. As to what you say about the next representative of our district, I can only say that I can not become a competitor with others for the nomination. I have said I will not. I would deny the people nothing---but I presume there are many others who will be quite as acceptable as myself. Lest I be misunderstood, dont let any one know I have written you any thing on this subject. I should not, had you not requested it. Most truly yours A. LINCOLN---

To Walter Davis
Dear Walter: Washington, April 14- 1848
Your letter, together with the Power of Attorney of your mother, and the discharge of your brother, has been received. I have just been to the proper office with them. They got me to certify  that I knew Thomas, that Maria Davis was his mother, and was still living, that his father is dead, and that Thomas himself was never married. They took the certificate and the papers you sent me, and promised to investigate the matter as soon as possible, and notify me of the result; which, when they do, I will write you again. As to the land part of the matter, a large majority of congress is in favor of it, and it would pass at any time, were it not that every fellow must say something, and offer an amendment; and so time is wasted, it is shoved by, and is a long while coming up again. I hope and believe it will finally pass.  Very truly Yours, A. LINCOLN

Certificate to Commissioner of Pensions Concerning Thomas Davis
April 14, 1848
I do hereby certify that I was personally well acquainted with 2nd. Lieutenant Thomas Davis, who served for a time as a private in Captain Frank L. [S.?] Early's company, of the 1st. Regt. of Texas volunteers, and who was transfered from that service, by a commission of a 2nd. Lieutenancy in the United States Rifle Regiment, which Regiment served in Col. Harney's  Brigade, at the battle of Cerro Gordo, and who fell in that battle; that I am also well acquainted with the family to which said Lieut. Davis belonged; that his father has been dead for many years; that his mother, Maria Davis, a widow, is still living, at Springfield, Illinois, and that said Lieut. Davis was never married. April 14th. 1848 A. LINCOLN--- A member of Congress.

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Dear Mary: Washington, April 16- 1848-
In this troublesome world, we are never quite satisfied. When you were here, I thought you hindered me some in attending to business; but now, having nothing but business---no variety---it has grown exceedingly tasteless to me. I hate to sit down and direct documents, and I hate to stay in this old room by myself. You know I told you in last sunday's letter, I was going to make a little speech during the week; but the week has passed away without my getting a chance to do so; and now my interest in the subject has passed away too. Your second and third letters have been received since I wrote before. Dear Eddy thinks father is `` gone tapila [.]''  Has any further discovery been made as to the breaking into your grand-mother's house? If I were she, I would not remain there alone. You mention that your uncle John Parker is likely to be at Lexington. Dont forget to present him my very kindest regards. I went yesterday to hunt the little plaid stockings, as you wished; but found that McKnight has quit business, and Allen had not a single pair of the description you give, and only one plaid pair of any sort that I thought would fit ``Eddy's dear little feet.'' I have a notion to make another trial to-morrow morning. If I could get them, I have an excellent chance of sending them. Mr. Warrick Tunstall, of St. Louis is here. He is to leave early this week, and to go by Lexington. He says he knows you, and will call to see you; and he voluntarily asked, if I had not some package to send to you. I wish you to enjoy yourself in every possible way; but is there no danger of wounding the feelings of your good father, by being so openly intimate with the Wickliffe family?  Mrs. Broome has not removed yet; but she thinks of doing so tomorrow. All the house---or rather, all with whom you were on decided good terms---send their love to you. The others say nothing. Very soon after you went away, I got what I think a very pretty set of shirt-bosom studs---modest little ones, jet, set in gold, only costing 50 cents a piece, or 1.50 for the whole. Suppose you do not prefix the ``Hon'' to the address on your letters to me any more. I like the letters very much, but I would rather they should not have that upon them. It is not necessary, as I suppose you have thought, to have them to come free. And you are entirely free from head-ache? That is good---good---considering it is the first spring you have been free from it since we were acquainted. I am afraid you will get so well, and fat, and young, as to be wanting to marry again. Tell Louisa I want her to watch you a little for me. Get weighed, and write me how much you weigh. I did not get rid of the impression of that foolish dream about dear Bobby till I got your letter written the same day. What did he and Eddy think of the little letters father sent them? Dont let the blessed fellows forget father. A day or two ago Mr. Strong, here in Congress, said to me that Matilda would visit here within two or three weeks.  Suppose you write her a letter, and enclose it in one of mine; and if she comes I will deliver it to her, and if she does not, I will send it to her. Most affectionately A. LINCOLN

To William L. Marcy
Honr Wm L Marcy Washington Secretary of War April 20. 1848
Sir I nominate for appointment to the Military Academy from the 7th Congr District of Illinois Hezekiah H Garber  of that District Very respectfully Your Obt Svt A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin Kellogg, Jr.
Dear Ben: Washington. April 21- 1848
Your letter,  which I herewith return, was received two days ago. On yesterday I went to the Patent office with it, made the memorandum on it which you see on the back of it,  and left it. Last night they returned it to me, with no other answer, than the pencil notes at the top and bottom of it, which you see.  I return the letter, because I suppose you will understand their notes better by seeing them, than you could by my writing about them. Yours as ever A LINCOLN

To Elihu B. Washburne
Dear Washburne: Washington, April 30. 1848.
I have this moment received your very short note asking me if old Taylor is to be used up, and who will be the nominee. My hope of Taylor's nomination is as high,---a little higher---than it was when you left. Still the case is by no means out of doubt. Mr. Clay's letter has not advanced his interests any here. Several who were against Taylor, but not for any body particularly, before, are since, taking ground, some for Scott  and some for McLean.  Who will be nominated neither I nor any one else can tell. Now, let me pray to you in turn. My prayer is, that you let nothing discourage or baffle you; but that, in spite of every difficulty, you send us a good Taylor delegate from your circuit. Make Baker,  who is now with you I suppose, help about it. He is a good hand to raise a breeze. Gen: Ashley,  in the Senate from Arkansas, died yesterday. Nothing else new beyond what you see in the papers. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Archibald Williams
Dear Williams: Washington, April 30. 1848.
I have not seen in the papers any evidence of a movement to send a delegate from your circuit to the June convention. I wish to say that I think it all important that a delegate should be sent. Mr. Clay's chance for an election, is just no chance at all. He might get NewYork; and that would have elected in 1844, but it will not now; because he must now, at the least, lose Tennessee, which he had then, and, in addition, the fifteen new votes of Florida, Texas, Iowa, and Wisconsin. I know our good friend Browning,  is a great admirer of Mr. Clay, and I therefore fear, he is favoring his nomination. If he is, ask him to discard feeling, and try if he can possibly, as a matter of judgment, count the votes necessary to elect him. In my judgment, we can elect nobody but Gen; Taylor; and we can not elect him without a nomination. Therefore, dont fail to send a delegate. Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN

To John T. Towers
Mr. J. T. Towers: Washington, Dear Sir: May 3. 1848
I understand that the speech of Mr. Wick,  of Indiana, is printed at your office. Please send to the folding room for me, three hundred copies of it, and oblige Yours &c. A. LINCOLN

Remarks in United States House of Representatives Concerning Payment of Texas Volunteers
May 4, 1848
Mr. Lincoln said the objection stated by the gentleman from Missouri [Mr. HALL]  struck him as being a sound one; and he wished to ascertain if there was anything further to be learned about this claim, for he desired fully to understand it. He understood that the volunteers who served in Mexico were not by any general law entitled to pay for lost horses, and he understood that if this resolution should pass, the Texas volunteers would be entitled to compensation for lost horses. Thus, they would be placed in more favorable circumstances than others.  . . . . . Mr. Lincoln said the payment for these lost horses came within a class of cases in which he was a good deal like a gentleman near him, who was in favor of paying for everything by way of being sure of paying all those that were right. But if this resolution should be passed, and the general law should fail, then everybody but these Texas volunteers would go without their compensation. He was not willing to do anything that would produce such a result. He preferred placing the Texas volunteers on a level with all other volunteers; and, therefore, he should vote for the reconsideration. 

Remarks in United States House of Representatives Concerning Admission of Wisconsin into the Union
May 11, 1848
Mr. LINCOLN moved to reconsider the vote by which the bill was passed.  He stated to the House that he had made this motion for the purpose of obtaining an opportunity to say a few words in relation to a point raised in the course of the debate on this bill, which he would now proceed to make, if in order. The point in the case to which he referred arose on the amendment that was submitted by the gentleman from Vermont [Mr. COLLAMER]  in Committee of the Whole on the state of the Union, and which was afterwards renewed in the House, in relation to the question whether the reserved sections, which, by some bills heretofore passed, by which an appropriation of land had been made to Wisconsin, had been enhanced in value, should be reduced to the minimum price of the public lands. The question of the reduction in value of those sections was to him, at this time, a matter very nearly of indifference. He was inclined to desire that Wisconsin should be obliged by having it reduced. Both the gentleman from Indiana, [Mr. C. B. SMITH,] the chairman of the Committee on the Territories, yesterday associated that question with the general question, which is now to some extent agitated in Congress, of making appropriations of alternate sections of land to aid the States in making internal improvements, and enhancing the price of the sections reserved; and the gentleman from Indiana took ground against that policy. He did not make any special argument in favor of Wisconsin; but he took ground generally against the policy of giving alternate sections of land, and enhancing the price of the reserved sections. Now he (Mr. L.) did not, at this time, take the floor for the purpose of attempting to make an argument on the general subject. He rose simply to protest against the doctrine which the gentleman from Indiana had avowed in the course of what he (Mr. L.) could not but consider an unsound argument. It might, however, be true, for anything he knew, that the gentleman from Indiana might convince him that his argument was sound; but he (Mr. L.) feared that gentleman would not be able to convince a majority in Congress that it was sound. It was true, the question appeared in a different aspect to persons in consequence of a difference in the point from which they looked at it. It did not look to persons residing east of the mountains as it did to those who lived among the public lands. But, for his part, he would state that if Congress would make a donation of alternate sections of public land for the purpose of internal improvements in his State, and forbid the reserved sections being sold at $1.25, he should be glad to see the appropriation made; though he should prefer it if the reserved sections were not enhanced in price. He repeated, he should be glad to have such appropriations made, even though the reserved sections should be enhanced in price. He did not wish to be understood as concurring in any intimation that they would refuse to receive such an appropriation of alternate sections of land because a condition enhancing the price of the reserved sections should be attached thereto. He believed his position would now be understood; if not, he feared he should not be able to make himself understood. But before he took his seat he would remark that the Senate, during the present session, had passed a bill making appropriations of land on that principle for the benefit of the State in which he resided---the State of Illinois. The alternate sections were to be given for the purpose of constructing roads, and the reserved sections were to be enhanced in value in consequence. When that bill came here for the action of this House---it had been received and was now before the Committee on Public Lands---he desired much to see it passed as it was, if it could be put in no more favorable form for the State of Illinois. When it should be before this House, if any member from a section of the Union in which these lands did not lie, whose interest might be less than that which he felt, should propose a reduction of the price of the reserved sections to $1.25, he should be much obliged; but he did not think it would be well for those who came from the section of the Union in which the lands lay to do so. He wished it, then, to be understood that he did not join in the warfare against the principle which had engaged the minds of some members of Congress who were favorable to improvements in the western country. There was a good deal of force, he admitted, in what fell from the chairman of the Committee on Territories. It might be that there was no precise justice in raising the price of the reserved sections to $2.50 per acre. It might be proper that the price should be enhanced to some extent, though not to double the usual price; but he should be glad to have such an appropriation with the reserved sections at $2.50; he should be better pleased to have the price of those sections at something less; and he should be still better pleased to have them without any enhancement at all. There was one portion of the argument of the gentleman from Indiana, the chairman of the Committee on Territories [Mr. SMITH,] which he wished to take occasion to say that he did not view as unsound. He alluded to the statement that the General Government was interested in these internal improvements being made, inasmuch as they increased the value of the lands that were unsold, and they enabled the Government to sell lands which could not be sold without them. Thus, then, the Government gained by internal improvements, as well as by the general good which the people derived from them, and it might be, therefore, that the lands should not be sold for more than $1.50 instead of the price being doubled. He, however, merely mentioned this in passing, for he only rose to state, as the principle of giving these lands for the purposes which he had mentioned had been laid hold of and considered favorably, and as there were some gentlemen who had constitutional scruples about giving money for these purchases, who would not hesitate to give land, that he was not willing to have it understood that he was one of those who made war against that principle. This was all he desired to say, and having accomplished the object with which he rose, he withdrew his motion to reconsider.

To John M. Peck
Rev: J. M. Peck. Washington, Dear Sir: May 21- 1848-
On last evening I received a copy of the Belleville Advocate, with the appearance of having been sent by a private hand; and, inasmuch as it contains your oration on the occasion of the celebrating of the battle of Buena Vista, and is post-marked at Rock-Spring, I can not doubt that it is to you, I am indebted for this, courtesy. I own that finding in the oration a laboured justification of the administration on the origin of the Mexican war, disappoints me---disappoints me, because it is the first effort of the kind I have known, made by one appearing to me to be, intelligent, right-minded, and impartial . It is this disappointment that prompts me to address you, briefly, on the subject. I do not propose any extended review. I do not quarrel with your brief exhibition of facts; I presume it is correct so far as it goes; but it is so brief, as to exclude some facts quite as material in my judgment, to a just conclusion, as any it includes. For instance, you say ``Paredes came into power the last of December 1845, and from that moment, all hopes of avoiding war by negociation vanished.'' A little further on, refering to this and other preceding statements, you say ``All this transpired three months before Gen: Taylor marched across the desert of the Nueces.'' These two statements are substantially correct;  and you evidently intend to have it infered that Gen: Taylor was sent across the desert, in consequence of the destruction of all hope of peace, in the overthrow of Herara by Paredes. Is not that the inference you intend? If so, the material fact you have excluded is, that Gen: Taylor was ordered to cross the desert on the 13th. of January 1846, and before the news of Herara's fall reached Washington--- before the administration, which gave the order, had any knowledge that Herara had fallen. Does not this fact cut up your inference by the roots? Must you not find some other excuse for that order, or give up the case? All that part of the three months you speak of, which transpired after the 13th. of January, was expended in the order's going from Washington to Gen: Taylor, in his preparations for the march, and in the actual march across the desert; and not in the president's waiting to hear the knell of peace, in the fall of Herara, or for any other object[.] All this is to be found in the very documents you seem to have used. One other thing: Although you say, at one point, ``I shall briefly exhibit facts and leave each person to perceive the just application to the principles already laid down, to the case in hand'' you very soon get to making applications yourself---in one instance, as follows: ``In view of all the facts, the conviction to my mind is irresistable, that the Government of the United States committed no aggression on Mexico.'' Not in view of all the facts. There are facts which you have kept out of view. It is a fact, that the United States Army, in marching to the Rio Grande, marched into a peaceful Mexican settlement, and frightened the inhabitants away from their homes and their growing crops. It is a fact, that Fort Brown, opposite Matamoras, was built by that army, within a Mexican cotten-field, on which, at the time the army reached it, a young cotten crop was growing and which crop was wholly destroyed, and the field itself greatly, and permanently injured, by ditches, embankments, and the like. It is a fact, that when the Mexicans captured Capt. Thornton and his command, they found and captured them within another Mexican field. Now I wish to bring these facts to your notice, and to ascertain what is the result of your reflections upon them. If you deny that they are facts, I think I can furnish proof which shall convince you that you are mistaken. If you admit that they are facts, then I shall be obliged for a reference to any law of language, law of states, law of nations, law of morals, law of religion,---any law human or divine, in which an authority can be found for saying those facts constitute `` no aggression ''. Possibly you consider those acts too small for notice. Would you venture to so consider them, had they been committed by any nation on earth, against the humblest of our people? I know you would not. Then I ask, is the precept ``Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them'' obsolete?---of no force?---of no application? I shall be pleased if you can find leisure to write me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Mary Todd Lincoln
My dear wife: Washington, May 24- 1848
Enclosed is the draft as I promised you in my letter of sunday.  It is drawn in favor of your father, and I doubt not, he will give you the money for it at once. I write this letter in the post-office, surrounded by men and noise, which, together with the fact that there is nothing new, makes me write so short a letter. Affectionately A. LINCOLN

To Silas Noble
Friend Noble: Washington, May 25, 1848.
Your letter of the 16th is just received. I will place your name on my book, and send you such documents as you desire, when I can get them. The entire war correspondence is in course of printing, and will be the best electioneering document, when completed. I will then send you a copy of it. You ask how Turner  stands. I answer, moderate---fair---about an average of new members. I have procured a couple of copies of Stewart's  speech and sent you, and he and I join cordially in the hope, that your hope of McLean's nomination may be disappointed---not that we wish you disappointed in the abstract , nor that we have anything against Judge McLean; but because we are entirely sure he is not `` a winning card .'' Your sincere friend, A. LINCOLN.

To Henry Slicer
Rev. Hy. Slicer Washington, Dear Sir: June 1. 1848
Your letter of the 30th. ult. was received last night. I very cheerfully comply with your request, so far as I am able. As I remember, the House ordered the raising of two committees, one, of Arrangements , number indefinite, the other, thirty in number, to attend the remains of Mr. Adams  to Massachusetts. By some mistake, as I understood, a committee of thirty was appointed by the Speaker, as a committee of Arrangements , of which I was a member. At our first meeting, the mistake was discovered, and the committee being much too numerous for convenience, we delegated our authority to a sub-committee, of a smaller number of our own body, of which sub-committee, I was not a member. Whatever was done in the matter about which you enquire, I presume was done by this sub-committee; at all events I have no knowledge of it whatever. Mr. Hudson  was Chairman of both the general, and the sub-committee, and who were the other members, of the latter I do not certainly recollect. To your first special interrogatory, towit ``Were you consulted in regard to my exclusion from the services?'' I answer, I was not---perhaps because the arrangement I have stated excluded me from consultation on all points. To the second to wit: ``Was objection made to me ---and if so, on what ground was it placed?'' I answer I know nothing whatever on the point. To the third, to wit ``Did my exclusion meet with your consent or approval ?'' I answer, I knew nothing of the matter, and, of course, did not consent to, or approve of it; and I may add, that I knew nothing which should have justified me in any attempt to put a mark of disapprobation upon you. So entirely ignorant was I, in relation to your having been excluded from the funeral services of Mr. Adams, that, until I received your letter, I should have given it as my recollection, that you did actually participate in those services. Yours respectfully A. LINCOLN---

Speech at Wilmington, Delaware
June 10, 1848
The first speaker introduced to the assembled multitude was the ``Lone Star of Illinois,'' Hon. Mr. Lincoln. He was received with three hearty cheers, and delivered an eloquent and patriotic speech on some of the principles of the Whig party and the standard- bearers they had selected to carry out their measures. He referred to the history of James K. Polk's administration---the abuse of power which characterized it---the high-handed and despotic exercise of the veto power, and the utter disregard of the will of the people, in refusing to give assent to measures which their representatives passed for the good and prosperity of the country. The manner in which the present Executive had carried on the Mexican war should condemn it and the Locofoco party before the whole people. He did not believe with many of his fellow citizens that this war was originated for the purpose of extending slave territory, but it was his opinion, frequently expressed, that it was a war of conquest brought into existence to catch votes. Admitting, however, that the disputes between Mexico and this country could not have been settled in an amicable manner---admitting that we went into the battle field as the last resort, with all the principles of right and justice on our side, why is it that this government desires a large sum of money to gain more territory than will secure ``indemnity for the past and security for the future?'' During the whole war this was the stereotyped motto of the administration; but when the treaty was sent to the Senate, the Executive not only included enough of territory for this purpose, but actually extended the boundaries and made an agreement to pay the Mexican government $15,000,000 for the additional territory. This subject demanded attention, and, although he had means of information, it had never been satisfactorily explained to him. Mr. Lincoln referred to other topics in an eloquent manner, and concluded with a few patriotic remarks on the character and long services of the Whig candidates.

To William H. Herndon
Dear William Washington, June 12. 1848-
On my return from Philadelphia, where I had been attending the nomination of ``Old Rough''---I found your letter in a mass of others, which had accumulated in my absence. By many, and often, it had been said they would not abide the nomination of Taylor; but since the deed has been done, they are fast falling in, and in my opinion we shall have a most overwhelming, glorious, triumph. One unmistakable sign is, that all the odds and ends are with us---Barnburners, Native Americans, Tyler men, disappointed office seeking locofocos, and the Lord knows what. This is important, if in nothing else, in showing which way the wind blows. Some of the sanguine men here, set down all the states as certain for Taylor, but Illinois, and it as doubtful. Can not something be done, even in Illinois? Taylor's nomination takes the locos on the blind side. It turns the war thunder against them. The war is now to them, the gallows of Haman, which they built for us, and on which they are doomed to be hanged themselves. Excuse this short letter. I have so many to write, that I can not devote much time to any one. Yours as ever A LINCOLN

To Mary Todd Lincoln
My dear wife: Washington, June 12. 1848-
On my return from Philadelphia, yesterday, where, in my anxiety I had been led to attend the whig convention I found your last letter. I was so tired and sleepy, having ridden all night, that I could not answer it till to-day; and now I have to do so in the H.R. The leading matter in your letter, is your wish to return to this side of the Mountains. Will you be a good girl in all things, if I consent? Then come along, and that as soon as possible. Having got the idea in my head, I shall be impatient till I see you. You will not have money enough to bring you; but I presume your uncle  will supply you, and I will refund him here. By the way you do not mention whether you have received the fifty dollars I sent you. I do not much fear but that you got it; because the want of it would have induced you [to?] say something in relation to it. If your uncle is already at Lexington, you might induce him to start on earlier than the first of July; he could stay in Kentucky longer on his return, and so make up for lost time. Since I began this letter, the H.R. has passed a resolution for adjourning on the 17th. July, which probably will pass the Senate. I hope this letter will not be disagreeable to you; which, together with the circumstances under which I write, I hope will excuse me for not writing a longer one. Come on just as soon as you can. I want to see you, and our dear--- dear boys very much. Every body here wants to see our dear Bobby.  Affectionately A. LINCOLN

To Richard S. Thomas
Friend Richard: Washington, June 13, 1848
In my anxiety for the result, I was led to attend the Philadelphia convention; and, on my return, I found your letter of the 1st. I have entered the names you sent me, on my book, and commenced sending documents to them. In relation to the School land questions, the land committees of both Houses, are of opinion the law is already ample in relation to fractional townships. To make sure of the matter, I shall go to the Gen'l Land office to-morrow morning, enquire into the whole matter, and write you again.  As to the report you saw in the Baltimore paper, on inquiry, I think it must have been a report of the Senate. No such bill has passed the House; but Breese  says he reported such a bill to the Senate, which he supposes has passed that body. I think I wrote you once before, that I thought no such bill could become a law, and gave my reasons for the opinion. Lest I am mistaken in my recollection, I now give you those reasons briefly. The justice of such a law rests upon the principle that every township should have a section of equal value with every other township, in proportion to its capacity for population. Now, to adopt this principle, and practically apply it, would entirely break up the present system, in relation to school sections, and require an amount of agencies and labor, more than equal in expense to the whole expense of the present land system. Seeing this, members of congress are disinclined to do a very little , and leave undone very much , of a matter all standing on the same principle. It is now obvious, that in the beginning of our land system, one thirty-sixth of the proceeds of the lands should have been given for school purposes, instead of giving the land itself; and then the States could have distributed the fund or the interest of it equally. Wisconsin, on coming into the Union, has managed to adopt this plan substantially. Should the bill from the Senate, come up in the House, of course I shall not use the above argument, or any other argument, against it; but on the contrary, shall do what I can to have it passed. Still, I doubt its ultimate success. Yours forever A. LINCOLN---

To Richard S. Thomas
R. S. Thomas, Esq., Washington, Dear Sir.--- June 15, 1848.
Herewith I send you a copy of a law, by virtue of which, the inhabitants of fractional Townships, on which there are NO sixteenth sections, or in which those sections are FRACTIONAL, and proportionally TOO SMALL for the remainder of such townships respectively, may have other lands in lieu. It will be seen that the law, by its letter, applies to cases where there is NO school land, but, by construction here, it is applied to cases where there is TOO LITTLE. In cases where there is, and only have enough in addition, to make their proportion. As I was ignorant of this law when I came on here, I suppose that some others may be; and therefore, in order that all persons interested may know the law, and the way to avail themselves of its benefits, I propose that you give this letter, the law, and Judge Young's letter, and note, a start for publication in the papers of our region. Yours Truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Richard S. Thomas
Friend Thomas: Washington, June 19, 1848.
Do you know any democrats who will vote for Taylor? and if so, what are their names? Do you know any Whigs who will not vote for him? and if so, what are their names? and for whom will they vote? Please answer this just as soon as it is received. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN---

Speech in United States House of Representatives on Internal Improvements
June 20, 1848
In committee of the whole on the state of the union, on the civil and diplomatic appropriation bill--- Mr. Chairman I wish at all times in no way to practice any fraud upon the House or the committee, and I also desire to do nothing which may be very disagreeable to any of the members. I therefore state in advance that my object in taking the floor is to make a speech on the general subject of internal improvements; and if I am out of order in doing so, I give the chair the oppertunity of so deciding, and I will take my seat. The Chair: I will not undertake to anticipate what the gentleman may say on the subject of internal improvements. He will, therefore, proceed in his remarks, and if any question of order shall be made, the chair will then decide it. Mr. Lincoln: At an early day of this session the president sent us what may properly be called an internal improvement veto message. The late democratic convention which sat at Baltimore, and which nominated Gen: Cass for the presidency, adopted a set of resolutions, now called the democratic platform, among which is one in these words: ``That the constitution does not confer upon the general government the power to commence, and carry on a general system of internal improvements'' Gen: Cass, in his letter accepting the nomination, holds this language: ``I have carefully read the resolutions of the Democratic National convention, laying down the platform of our political faith, and I adhere to them as firmly, as I approve them cordially.'' These things, taken together, show that the question of internal improvements is now more distinctly made---has become more intense---than at any former period. It can no longer be avoided. The veto message, and the Baltimore resolution, I understand to be, in substance, the same thing; the latter being the mere general statement, of which the former is the amplification---the bill of particulars. While I know there are many democrats, on this floor and elsewhere, who disapprove that message, I understand that all who shall vote for Gen: Cass, will thereafter be counted as having approved it---as having endorsed all it's doctrines. I suppose all, or nearly all the democrats will vote for him. Many of them will do so, not because they like his position on this question, but because they prefer him, being wrong in this, to another whom they consider farther wrong on other other [ sic ] questions. In this way, the internal improvement democrats are to be, by a sort of forced consent, carried over, and arrayed against themselves on this measure of policy. Gen: Cass, once elected, will not trouble himself to make a constitutional argument, or, perhaps, any argument at all, when he shall veto a river or harbor bill; he will consider it a sufficient answer to all democratic murmers, to point to Mr. Polk's message, and to the ``democratic platform.'' This being the case, the question of improvements is verging to a final crisis; and the friends of the policy must now battle, and battle manfully, or surrender all. In this view, humble as I am, I wish to review, and contest as well as I may, the general positions of this veto message. When I say general positions, I mean to exclude from consideration so much as relates to the present embarrassed state of the Treasury in consequence of the Mexican war. Those general positions are: That internal improvements ought not to be made by the general government--- 1. Because they would overwhelm the Treasury. 2. Because, while their burthens would be general, their benefits would be local and partial ; involving an obnoxious inequality--- and 3. Because they would be unconstitutional. 4. Because the states may do enough by the levy and collection of tonnage duties---or if not 5. That the constitution may be amended. ``Do nothing at all, lest you do something wrong'' is the sum of these positions---is the sum of this message. And this, with the exception of what is said about constitutionality, applying as forcibly to making improvements by state authority, as by the national authority. So that we must abandon the improvements of the country altogether, by any, and every authority, or we must resist, and repudiate the doctrines of this message. Let us attempt the latter. The first position is, that a system of internal improvements would overwhelm the treasury. That, in such a system there is a tendency to undue expansion, is not to be denied. Such tendency is founded in the nature of the subject. A member of congress will prefer voting for a bill which contains an appropriation for his district, to voting for one which does not; and when a bill shall be expanded till every district shall be provided for, that it will be too greatly expanded, is obvious. But is this any more true in congress, than in a state legislature? If a member of congress must have an appropriation for his district, so, a member of a legislature must have one for his county. And if one will overwhelm the national treasury, so the other will overwhelm the state treasury. Go where we will, the difficulty is the same. Allow it to drive us from the halls of congress, and it will, just as easily, drive us from the state legislatures. Let us, then, grapple with it, and test it's strength. Let us, judging of the future by the past, ascertain whether there may not be, in the discretion of congress, a sufficient power to limit, and restrain this expansive tendency, within reasonable, and proper bounds. The president himself values the evidence of the past. He tells us that at a certain point of our history, more than two hundred millions of dollars had been, applied for , to make improvements; and this he does to prove that the treasury would be overwhelmed by such a system. Why did he not tell us how much was granted ? Would not that have been better evidence? Let us turn to it, and see what it proves. In the message, the president tells us that ``During the four succeeding years, embraced by the administration of president Adams, the power not only to appropriate money, but to apply it, under the direction and authority of the General Government, as well [as] to the construction of roads, as to the improvement of harbors and rivers, was fully asserted and exercised'' This, then, was the period of greatest enormity. These, if any, must have been the days of the two hundred millions. And how much do you suppose was really expended for improvements, during that four years? Two hundred millions? One hundred? Fifty? Ten? Five? No sir, less than two millions. As shown by authentic documents, the expenditures on improvements, during 1825 1826---1827 and 1828, amounted to $1-879-627-01. These four years were the period of Mr. Adams' administration, nearly, and substantially. This fact shows, that when the power to make improvements ``was fully asserted and exercised'' the congress did keep within reasonable limits; and what has been done, it seems to me, can be done again. Now for the second position of the message, namely, that the burthens of improvements would be general , while their benefits would [be] local and partial , involving an obnoxious inequality. That there is some degree of truth in this position, I shall not deny. No commercial object of government patronage can be so exclusively general , as to not be of some peculiar local advantage; but, on the other hand, nothing is so local , as to not be of some general advantage. The Navy, as I understand it, was established, and is maintained at a great annual expense, partly to be ready for war when war shall come, but partly also, and perhaps chiefly, for the protection of our commerce on the high seas. This latter object is, for all I can see, in principle, the same as internal improvements. The driving a pirate from the track of commerce on the broad ocean, and the removing a snag from it's more narrow path in the Mississippi river, can not, I think, be distinguished in principle. Each is done to save life and property, and for nothing else. The Navy, then, is the most general in it's benefits of all this class of objects; and yet even the Navy is of some peculiar advantage to Charleston, Baltimore, Philadelphia, New-York and Boston, beyond what it is to the interior towns of Illinois. The next most general object I can think of would be improvements on the Mississippi river and it's tributaries. They touch thirteen of our states, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas, Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Wisconsin and Iowa. Now I suppose it will not be denied, that these thirteen states are a little more interested in improvements on that great river, than are the remaining seventeen. These instances of the Navy, and the Miss[iss]ippi river, show clearly that there is something of local advantage in the most general objects. But the converse is also true. Nothing is so local as to not be of some general benefit. Take, for instance, the Illinois and Michigan canal. Considered apart from it's effects, it is perfectly local. Every inch of it is within the state of Illinois. That canal was first opened for business last April. In a very few days we were all gratified to learn, among other things, that sugar had been carried from New-Orleans through this canal to Buffalo in New-York. This sugar took this route, doubtless because it was cheaper than the old route. Supposing the benefit of the reduction in the cost of carriage to be shared between seller and buyer, the result is, that the New Orleans merchant sold his sugar a little dearer ; and the people of Buffalo sweetened their coffee a little cheaper , than before---a benefit resulting from the canal, not to Illinois where the canal is , but to Louisiana and New-York where it is not . In other transactions Illinois will, of course, have her share, and perhaps the larger share too, in the benefits of the canal; but the instance of the sugar clearly shows that the benefits of an improvement, are by no means confined to the particular locality of the improvement itself. The just conclusion from all this is, that if the nation refuse to make improvements, of the more general kind, because their benefits may be somewhat local, a state may, for the same reason, refuse to make an improvement of a local kind, because it's benefits may be somewhat general. A state may well say to the nation ``If you will do nothing for me, I will do nothing for you.'' Thus it is seen, that if this argument of ``inequality'' is sufficient any where,---it is sufficient every where; and puts an end to improvements altogether. I hope and believe, that if both the nation and the states would, in good faith, in their respective spheres, do what they could in the way of improvements, what of inequality might be produced in one place, might be compensated in another, and that the sum of the whole might not be very unequal. But suppose, after all, there should be some degree of inequality. Inequality is certainly never to be embraced for it's own sake; but is every good thing to be discarded, which may be inseparably connected with some degree of it? If so, we must discard all government. This capitol is built at the public expense, for the public benefit[;] but does any one doubt that it is of some peculiar local advantage to the property holders, and business people of Washington? Shall we remove it for this reason? and if so, where shall we set it down, and be free from the difficulty? To make sure of our object, shall we locate it nowhere? and have congress hereafter to hold it's sessions, as the loafer lodged ``in spots about''? I make no special allusion to the present president when I say there are few stronger cases in this in this [ sic ] world, of ``burthen to the many, and benefit to the few''---of ``inequality''---than the presidency itself is by some thought to be. An honest laborer digs coal at about seventy cents a day, while the president digs abstractions at about seventy dollars a day. The coal is clearly worth more than the abstractions , and yet what a monstrous inequality in the prices! Does the president, for this reason, propose to abolish the presidency? He does not, and he ought not. The true rule, in determining to embrace, or reject any thing, is not whether it have any evil in it; but whether it have more of evil, than of good. There are few things wholly evil, or wholly good. Almost every thing, especially of governmental policy, is an inseparable compound of the two; so that our best judgment of the preponderance between them is continually demanded. On this principle the president, his friends, and the world generally, act on most subjects. Why not apply it, then, upon this question? Why, as to improvements, magnify the evil , and stoutly refuse to see any good in them? Mr. Chairman, on the third position of the message, the constitutional question, I have not much to say. Being the man I am, and speaking when I do, I feel, that in any attempt at an original constitutional argument, I should not be, and ought not to be, listened to patiently. The ablest, and the best of men, have gone over the whole ground long ago. I shall attempt but little more than a brief notice of what some of them have said. In relation to Mr. Jeffersons views, I read from Mr. Polk's veto message--- President Jefferson, in his message to Congress in 1806, recommended an amendment of the constitution, with a view to apply an anticipated surplus in the Treasury ``to the great purposes of the public education, roads, rivers, canals, and such other objects of public improvements as it may be thought proper to add to the constitutional enumeration of the federal powers;'' and he adds: ``I suppose an amendment to the constitution, by consent of the States, necessary, because the objects now recommended are not among those enumerated in the constitution, and to which it permits the public moneys to be applied.'' In 1825, he repeated, in his published letters, the opinion that no such power has been conferred upon Congress.  I introduce this, not to controvert, just now, the constitutional opinion, but to show that on the question of expediency , Mr. Jeffersons opinion was against the present president---that this opinion of Mr. Jefferson, in one branch at least, is, in the hands of Mr. Polk, like McFingal's gun:---``Bears wide, and kicks the owner over.'' But to the constitutional question---In 1826, Chancellor Kent first published his Commentaries on American Law. He devoted a portion of one of the lectures to the question of the authority of congress to appropriate public moneyes for internal improvements. He mentions that the question had never been brought under judicial consideration, and proceeds to give a brief summary of the discussions it had undergone between the legislative, and executive branches of the government. He shows that the legislative branch had usually been for , and the executive against the power, till the period of Mr. J. Q. Adams' administration, at which point he considers the executive influence as withdrawn from opposition, and added to the support of the power. In 1844 the chancellor published a new edition of his commentaries, in which he adds some notes of what had transpired on the question since 1826. I have not time to read the original text, or the notes; but the whole may be found on page 267, and the two or three following pages of the first volume of the edition of 1844. As what Chancellor Kent seems to consider the sum of the whole, I read from one of the notes: ``Mr. Justice Story, in his commentaries on the constitution of the United States, vol. ii p 429-440, and again p 519-538 has stated at large the arguments for and and [ sic ] against the proposition, that congress have a constitutional authority to lay taxes, and to apply the power to regulate commerce as a means directly to encourage and protect domestic manufactures; and without giving any opinion of his own on the contested doctrine, he has left the reader to draw his own conclusions. I should think, however, from the arguments as stated, that every mind which has taken no part in the discussions, and felt to prejudice or teritorial bias on either side of the question, would deem the arguments in favor of the congressional power vastly superior.'' It will be seen, that in this extract the power to make improvements is not directly mentioned; but by examining the context, both of Kent and Story, it will be seen that the power mentioned in the extract, and the power to make improvements are regarded as identical. It is not to be denied that many great and good men have been against the power; but it is insisted that quite as many, as great and as good, have been for it; and it is shown that, on a full survey of the whole, Chancellor Kent was of opinion that the arguments of the latter were vastly superior. This is but the opinion of a man, but who was that man? He was one of the ablest and most learned lawyers of his age, or of any age. It is no disparagement to Mr. Polk, nor, indeed to any one who devotes much time to politics, to be placed far behind Chancellor Kent as a lawyer.  His attitude was most favorable to correct conclusions. He wrote coolly, and in retirement. He was struggling to rear a durable [an enduring] monument of fame; and he well knew that truth and thoroughly sound reasoning were the only sure foundations. Can the party opinion of a party [the] president, on a law question, as this purely is, be at all compared, or set in in opposition to that of such a man, in such an attitude, as Chancellor Kent? This constitutional question will probably never be better settled than it is, until it shall pass under judicial consideration; but I do think no man, who is clear on the questions of expediency, needs feel his conscience much pricked upon this. Mr. Chairman, the president seems to think that enough may be done, in the way of improvements, by means of tonnage duties, under state authority, with the consent of the General Government. Now I suppose this matter of tonnage duties is well enough in it's own sphere. I suppose it may be efficient, and perhaps, sufficient , to make slight improvements and repairs, in harbors already in use, and not much out of repair. But if I have any correct general idea of it, it must be wholly inefficient for any generally benificent purposes of improvement. I know very little, or rather nothing at all, of the practical matter of levying and collecting tonnage duties; but I suppose one of it's principles must be, to lay a duty for the improvement of any particular harbor, upon the tonnage coming into that harbor . To do otherwise---to collect money in one harbor, to be expended on improvements in another , would be an extremely aggravated form of that inequality which the president so much deprecates. If I be right in this, how could we make any entirely new improvement by means of tonnage duties? How make a road, a canal, or clear a greatly obstructed river? The idea that we could, involves the same absurdity of the irish bull about the new boots---``I shall niver git em on'' says Patrick ``till I wear em a day or two, and strech em a little[.]'' We shall never make a canal by tonnage duties, u[n]til it shall already have been made awhile, so the tonnage can get into it. After all, the president, concludes that possibly there may be some great objects of improvements which can not be effected by tonnage duties, and which, therefore, may be expedient for the General Government to take in hand. Accordingly he suggests, in case any such be discovered, the propriety of amending the constitution. Amend it for what? If, like Mr. Jefferson, the president thought improvements expedient , but not constitutional, it would be natural enough for him to recommend such an amendment; but hear what he says in this very message: ``In view of these portentous consequences, I can not but think that this course of legislation should be arrested, even were there nothing to forbid it in the fundamental laws of our union.'' For what, then, would he have the constitution amended? With him it is a proposition to remove one impediment, merely to be met by others , which, in his opinion, can not be removed---to enable congress to do what, in his opinion they ought not to do, if they could!---(Here Mr. Meade,  of Virginia, enquired if Mr. L. understood the president to be opposed, on grounds of expediency to any and every improvement; to which Mr. L. answered) In the very part of his message of which I am [now] speaking, I understand him as giving some vague expression in favor of some possible objects of improvements; but in doing so, I understand him to be directly in the teeth of his own arguments, in other parts of it. Neither the president, nor any one, can possibly specify an improvement, which shall not be clearly liable to one or another of the objections he has urged on the score of expediency. I have shown, and might show again, that no work---no object---can be so general, as to dispense it's benefits with precise equality; and this inequality, is chief among the ``portentous consequences'' for which he declares that improvements should be arrested. No sir, when the president intimates that something, in the way of improvements, may properly be done by the General Government, he is shrinking from the conclusions to which his own arguments would force him. He feels that the improvements of this broad and goodly land, are a mighty interest; and he is unwilling to confess to the people, or perhaps to himself, that he has built an argument which, when pressed to it's conclusions, entirely anihilates this interest. I have already said that no one, who is satisfied of the expediency of making improvements, needs be much uneasy in his conscience about it's constitutionality. I wish now to submit a few remarks on the general proposition of amending the constitution. As a general rule, I think, we would [do] much better [to] let it alone. No slight occasion should tempt us to touch it. Better not take the first step, which may lead to a habit of altering it. Better, rather, habituate ourselves to think of it, as unalterable. It can scarcely be made better than it is. New provisions, would introduce new difficulties, and thus create, and increase appetite for still further change. No sir, let it stand as it is. New hands have never touched it. The men who made it, have done their work, and have passed away. Who shall improve, on what they did? Mr. Chairman, for the purpose of reviewing this message in the least possible time, as well as for the sake of distinctness, I had analized it's arguments, as well as I could, and reduced them to the propositions I have stated. I have now examined them in detail. I wish to detain the committee only a little while longer with some general remarks upon the subject of improvements. That the subject is a difficult one, can not be denied. Still it is no more difficult in congress, than in the state legislatures, in the counties, or in the smallest municipal districts, which any where exist. All can recur to instances of this difficulty in the case of county-roads, bridges, and the like. One man is offended because a road passes over his land, and another is offended because it does not pass over his; one is dissatisfied because the bridge, for which he is taxed, crosses the river on a different road from that which leads from his house to town; another can not bear that the county should be got in debt for these same roads and bridges; while not a few struggle hard to have roads located over their lands, and then stoutly refuse to let them be opened until they are first paid the damages. Even between the different wards, and streets, of towns and cities, we find this same wrangling, and difficulty. Now these are no other than the very difficulties, against which and out of which, the president constructs his objections of ``inequality'' ``speculation'' and ``crushing the treasury.'' There is but a single alternative about them; they are sufficient , or they are not . If sufficient, they are sufficient out of congress as well as in it, and there is the end. We must reject them, as insufficient, or lie down and do nothing, by any authority. Then, difficulty though there be, let us meet, and encounter [overcome] it. Attempt the end, and never stand to doubt; Nothing so hard, but search will find it out.  Determine that the thing can and shall be done, and then we shall find the way. The tendency to undue expansion is unquestionably the chief difficulty. How to do something , and still not do too much , is the desideratum. Let each contribute his mite in the way of suggestion. The late Silas Wright, in a letter to the Chicago convention, contributed his, which was worth something; and I now contribute mine, which may be worth nothing. At all events, it will mislead nobody, and, therefore will do no harm. I would not borrow money. I am against an overwhelming, crushing system. Suppose, that at each session, congress shall first determine how much money can, for that year, be spared for improvements; then apportion that sum to the most important objects. So far all is easy; but how shall we determine which are the most important? On this question comes the collision of interests. I shall be slow to acknowledge, that your harbor, or your river is more important than mine ---and vice versa . To clear this difficulty, let us have that same statistical information, which the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Vinton)  suggested at the beginning of this session. In that information, we shall have a stern, unbending basis of facts ---a basis, in nowise subject to whim, caprice, or local interest. The pre-limited amount of means, will save us from doing too much , and the statistics, will save us from doing, what we do, in wrong places . Adopt, and adhere to this course, and it seems to me, the difficulty is cleared. One of the gentlemen from South Carolina (Mr. Rhett)  very much deprecates these statistics. He particularly objects, as I understand him, to counting all the pigs and chickens in the land. I do not perceive much force in the objection. It is true that if every thing be enumerated, a portion of such statistics may not be very useful to this object. Such products of the country as are to be consumed where they are produced , need no roads or rivers---no means of transportation, and have no very proper connection with this subject. The surplus ---that which is produced in one place, to be consumed in another ; the capacity of each locality for producing a greater surplus; the natural means of transportation, and their susceptability of improvement; the hindrances, delays, and losses of life and property during transportation, and the causes of each, would be among the most valuable statistics in this connection. From these, it would readily appear where a given amount of expenditure would do the most good. These statistics might be equally accessable, as they would be equally useful, to both the nation and the states. In this way, and by these means, let the nation take hold of the larger works, and the states the smaller ones; and thus, working in a meeting direction, discreetly, but steadily and firmly, what is made unequal in one place may be equalized in another, extravagance avoided, and the whole country put on that career of prosperity, which shall correspond with it's extent of teritory, it's natural resources, and the intelligence and enterprize of it's people.

To Thomas Ewing
Washington, June 22. 1849
Hon. Secretary of the Interior Dear Sir, This morning, on my mention[ing to] you, I had an intimation my old friend, Cyrus Edwards,  had placed on file something illnatured against me, you had the kindness, as I remember, to volunteer the remark, in my defense, that but for my devotion to Mr. Edwards, manifested by withholding my own name for his benefit, I would now, in your opinion, be the Commissioner. If, in this, my memory serves me correctly, you will greatly oblige me, by saying as much on paper, with anything additional to the same point, which may occur to you. It will enable me, I think, to remove from the mind of one of my most highly valued friends, a bad impression, which is now the only thing much painful to me personally, in this whole matter. Your Obt Servt A. LINCOLN

To William H. Herndon
Dear William: Washington, June 22. 1848-
Last night I was attending a sort of caucus of the whig members held in relation to the coming presidential election. The whole field of the Nation was scanned, and all is high hope and confidence. Illinois is expected to better her condition in this race. Under these circumstances, judge how heart-sickening it was to come to my room and find and read your discouraging letter of the 15th. We have made no gains, but have lost ``A. R. Robinson, Turner [,] Campbell,  and four or five more.'' Tell Arney  to re-consider, if he would be saved. Baker  and I used to do something, but I think you attach more importance to our absence than is just. There is another cause. In 1840, for instance, we had two senators and five representatives in Sangamon; now we have part of one senator, and two representatives. With quite one third more people than we had then, we have only half the sort of offices which are sought by men of the speaking sort of talent. This, I think, is the chief cause. Now as to the young men. You must not wait to be brought forward by the older men. For instance do you suppose that I should ever have got into notice if I had waited to be hunted up and pushed forward by older men. You young men get together and form a Rough & Ready club, and have regular meetings and speeches. Take in every body that you can get, Harrison Grimsley, Z. A. Enos, Lee Kimball, and C. W. Matheny  will do well to begin the thing, but as you go along, gather up all the shrewd wild boys about town, whether just of age, or little under age---Chris: Logan, Reddick Ridgely, Lewis Zwizler,  and hundreds such. Let every one play the part he can play best---some speak, some sing, and all hollow. Your meetings will be of evenings; the older men, and the women will go to hear you; so that it will not only contribute to the election of ``Old Zach'' but will be an interesting pastime, and improving to the intellectual faculties of all engaged. Dont fail to do this. You ask me to send you all the speeches made about ``Old Zac'' the war &c. &c. Now this makes me a little impatient. I have regularly sent you the Congressional Globe and Appendix, and you can not have examined them, or you would have discovered that they contain every speech made by every man, in both Houses of Congress, on every subject, during this session. Can I send any more? Can I send speeches that nobody has made? Thinking it would be most natural that the newspapers would feel interested to give at least some of the speeches to their readers, I, at the beginning of the session made arrangement to have one copy of the Globe and Appendix regularly sent to each whig paper of our district. And yet, with the exception of my own little speech, which was published in two only of the then five, now four whig papers,  I do not remember having seen a single speech, or even an extract from one, in any single one of those papers. With equal and full means on both sides, I will venture that the State Register has thrown before it's readers more of Locofoco speeches in a month, than all the whig papers of the district, have done of whig speeches during the session. If you wish a full understanding of the beginning of the war, I repeat what I believe I said to you in a letter once before, that the whole, or nearly so is to be found in the speech of Dixon  of Connecticut. This I sent you in Pamphlet, as well as in the Globe. Examine and study every sentence of that speech thoroughly, and you will understand the whole subject. You ask how Congress came to declare that war existed by the act of Mexico. Is it possible you dont understand that yet? You have at least twenty speeches in your possession that fully explain it. I will, however, try it once more. The news reached Washington of the commencement of hostilities on the Rio Grande, and of the great peril of Gen: Taylor's army. Every body, whig and democrat, was for sending them aid, in men and money. It was necessary to pass a bill for this. The Locos had a majority in both Houses, and they brought in a bill with a preamble, saying--- Whereas war exists by the act of Mexico, therefore we send Gen: Taylor men and money. The whigs moved to strike out the preamble, so that they could vote to send the men and money, without saying any thing about how the war commenced; but, being in the minority they were voted down, and the preamble was retained. Then, on the passage of the bill, the question came upon them, ``shall we vote for preamble and bill both together, or against both together.'' They could not vote against sending help to Gen: Taylor, and therefore they voted for both together. Is there any difficulty in understanding this? Even my little speech, shows how this was; and if you will go to the Library you may get the Journals of 1845-6, in which you can find the whole for yourself. We have nothing published yet with special reference to the Taylor race; but we soon will have, and then I will send them to every body. I made an Internal Improvement speech day-before-yesterday, which I shall send home as soon as I can get it written out and printed, and which I suppose nobody will read. Your friend as ever A LINCOLN

Endorsement: To J. M. McCalla
[June 26, 1848]
Gen: McCalla will see the object of the within letter. Will he please attend to it and notify me? A. LINCOLN

To Walter Davis
Dear Walter: Washington, June 26. 1848-
Your letter of the 16. was received last night. I have just separated the business half of it from the other, and sent it to the 2nd. Auditor with the request that he will attend to it and notify me. The papers you express some wish to have returned, I suppose will have to remain on file as vouchers. I will look further into it however. Your political news is particularly gratifying. Dont be alarmed by the accounts of whig defection in Ohio, New-York & New England. Barn-burnerism, among the locos, will more than match it. We hear such news as you write, from most all quarters, and we are all in high spirits. Give my good will to Jack,  and the other friends. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Horace Greeley
Washington, June 27, 1848.
Friend Greeley: In the ``Tribune'' of yesterday I discovered a little editorial paragraph in relation to Colonel Wentworth  of Illinois, in which, in relation to the boundary of Texas, you say: ``All Whigs and many Democrats having ever contended it stopped at the Nueces.'' Now this is a mistake which I dislike to see go uncorrected in a leading Whig paper. Since I have been here, I know a large majority of such Whigs of the House of Representatives as have spoken on the question have not taken that position. Their position, and in my opinion the true position, is that the boundary of Texas extended just so far as American settlements taking part in her revolution extended; and that as a matter of fact those settlements did extend, at one or two points, beyond the Nueces, but not anywhere near the Rio Grande at any point. The ``stupendous desert'' between the valleys of those two rivers, and not either river, has been insisted on by the Whigs as the true boundary. Will you look at this? By putting us in the position of insisting on the line of the Nueces, you put us in a position which, in my opinion, we cannot maintain, and which therefore gives the Democrats an advantage of us. If the degree of arrogance is not too great, may I ask you to examine what I said on this very point in the printed speech I send you. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Remarks in U. S. House of RepresentativesConcerning Salary of Judge of Western District in Virginia
June 28, 1848
Mr. LINCOLN said, he felt unwilling to be either unjust or ungenerous, and he wanted to understand the real case of this judicial officer. The gentleman from Virginia  had stated that he had to hold eleven courts. Now, everybody knew that it was not the habit of the district judges of the United States in other States to hold anything like that number of courts; and he therefore took it for granted that this must happen under a peculiar law, which required that large number of courts to be holden every year; and these laws, he further supposed, were passed at the request of the people of that judicial district. It came, then, to this: that the people in the western district of Virginia had got eleven courts to be held among them in one year, for their own accommodation; and being thus better accommodated than their neighbors elsewhere, they wanted their judge to be a little better paid. In Illinois, there had been, until the present season, but one district court held in the year. There were now to be two. Could it be that the western district of Virginia furnished more business for a judge than the whole State of Illinois?

To Mary Todd Lincoln
My dear wife: Washington, July 2. 1848.
Your letter of last sunday came last night. On that day (sunday) I wrote the principal part of a letter to you, but did not finish it, or send it till tuesday, when I had provided a draft for $100 which I sent in it. It is now probable that on that day (tuesday) you started to Shelbyville; so that when the money reaches Lexington, you will not be there. Before leaving, did you make any provision about letters that might come to Lexington for you? Write me whether you got the draft, if you shall not have already done so, when this reaches you. Give my kindest regards to your uncle John,  and all the family. Thinking of them reminds me that I saw your acquaintance, Newton,  of Arkansas, at the Philadelphia Convention. We had but a single interview, and that was so brief, and in so great a multitude of strange faces, that I am quite sure I should not recognize him, if I were to meet him again. He was a sort of Trinity, three in one, having the right, in his own person, to cast the three votes of Arkansas. Two or three days ago I sent your uncle John, and a few of our other friends each a copy of the speech I mentioned in my last letter; but I did not send any to you, thinking you would be on the road here, before it would reach you. I send you one now. Last wednesday, P. H. Hood & Co, dunned me for a little bill of $5.38 cents, and Walter Harper & Co, another for $8.50 cents, for goods which they say you bought. I hesitated to pay them, because my recollection is that you told me when you went away, there was nothing left unpaid. Mention in your next letter whether they are right. Mrs. Richardson  is still here; and what is more, has a baby---so Richardson says, and he ought to know. I believe Mary Hewett  has left here and gone to Boston. I met her on the street about fifteen or twenty days ago, and she told me she was going soon. I have seen nothing of her since. The music in the Capitol grounds on saturdays, or, rather, the interest in it, is dwindling down to nothing. Yesterday evening the attendance was rather thin. Our two girls, whom you remember seeing first at Carusis,  at the exhibition of the Ethiopian Serenaders, and whose peculiarities were the wearing of black fur bonnets, and never being seen in close company with other ladies, were at the music yesterday. One of them was attended by their brother, and the other had a member of Congress in tow. He went home with her; and if I were to guess, I would say, he went away a somewhat altered man---most likely in his pockets, and in some other particular. The fellow looked conscious of guilt, although I believe he was unconscious that every body around knew who it was that had caught him. I have had no letter from home, since I wrote you before, except short business letters, which have no interest for you. By the way, you do not intend to do without a girl, because the one you had has left you? Get another as soon as you can to take charge of the dear codgers. Father expected to see you all sooner; but let it pass; stay as long as you please, and come when you please. Kiss and love the dear rascals. Affectionately A. LINCOLN

To William L. Marcy
Hon: Secretary of War: House of Representatives Dear Sir: July 6. 1848
Joab Wilkinson,  who was a Captain, or a Lieutenant, (I forget which) in the Regiment commanded by Col: Henry L. Webb,  resigned his commission, and now desires a restoration. I have seen many testimonials in his favor, from his brother officers, and particularly, one from Col. Webb; am myself personally acquainted with him, from all which I shall be much gratified, if he shall be restored. Another matter: Elias B. Zabriskie,  of Jacksonville, Illinois, has been an applicant for a Lieutenancy, and the close of the war putting an end to all prospect of his success, he desires me to withdraw the papers recommending him, and send them to him. If there be no impropriety in it, will you please send them to me? Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

Petition Concerning A. G. Matlock
To Robert E Horner Esq Doorkeeper &c July 8, 1848
We the undersigned members of the House of Reps. do request that A. G. Matlock be retained in his present situation as messenger July 8th. 1848 Richd. Brodhead 	W. Nelson N.Y. 	Wm. A. Newell J. R. Ingersoll 	P. W. Tompkins 	J. Gayle A. H. Shepperd 	A. Buckner. 	W. Hunt John W. Houston 	A. Lincoln 	Wm. T. Haskell Alexander Evans of Md. 	John W. Jones 	Hugh White

To William H. Herndon
Dear William: Washington, July 10, 1848
Your letter covering the newspaper slips, was received last night. The subject of that letter is exceedingly painful to me; and I can not but think there is some mistake in your impression of the motives of the old men. I suppose I am now one of the old men---and I declare on my veracity, which I think is good with you, that nothing could afford me more satisfaction than to learn that you and others of my young friends at home, were  doing battle in the contest, and endearing themselves to the people, and taking a stand far above any I have ever been able to reach, in their admiration. I can not conceive that other old men feel differently. Of course I can not demonstrate what I say; but I was young once, and I am sure I was never ungenerously thrust back. I hardly know what to say. The way for a young man to rise, is to improve himself every way he can, never suspecting that any body wishes to hinder him. Allow me to assure you, that suspicion and jealousy never did help any man in any situation. There may sometimes be ungenerous attempts to keep a young man down; and they will succeed too, if he allows his mind to be diverted from its true channel to brood over the attempted injury. Cast about, and see if this feeling has not injured every person you have ever known to fall into it. Now, in what I have said, I am sure you will suspect nothing but sincere friendship. I would save you from a fatal error. You have been a laborious, studious young man. You are far better informed on almost all subjects than I have ever been. You can not fail in any laudable object, unless you allow your mind to be improperly directed. I have some the advantage of you in the world's experience, merely by being older; and it is this that induces me to advise. You still seem to be a little mistaken about the Congressional Globe and Appendix. They contain all of the speeches that are published in any way. My speech, and Dayton's  speech, which you say you got in pamphlet form, are both, word for word, in the Appendix. I repeat again all are there. Your friend, as ever A. LINCOLN

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
DEAR SIR: WASHINGTON, July 10., 1848.
I send you herewith a prospectus, and the first number of a new Whig Paper called THE BATTERY, publishing in this city, with a view to promote the election of Gen. ZACHARY TAYLOR to the Presidency, and MILLARD FILLMORE to the Vice Presidency of the United States. I respectfully request you to obtain subscribers for the paper in your immediate vicinage. Please send a list of names, and the amount that will be due according to the terms proposed, and I will see that the subscribers get their papers through the mail. As a general dissemination of this paper will, it is believed, be of high importance to the success of the Whig cause, permit me to solicit an immediate attention to the subject . Friend Hurlbut  Your letter of a recent date was duly received. I could think of no better way of fitting you out, than by sending you the Battery, the first number of which, together with the prospectus, I send by this mail. If it strikes you as giving promise of being a good campaign paper, please get as many subscribers as you can and send them on. I have put you down for one copy, the subscription for which I will pay myself, if you are not satisfied with it. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To William H. Herndon
Dear William: Washington, July 11- 1848
Yours of the 3rd. is this moment received; and I hardly need say, it gives unalloyed pleasure. I now almost regret writing the serious, long faced letter, I wrote yesterday; but let the past as nothing be. Go it while you're young! I write this in the confusion of the H.R, and with several other things to attend to. I will send you about eight different speeches this evening; and as to kissing a pretty girl, [I] know one very pretty one, but I guess she wont let me kiss her. Yours forever A LINCOLN

Remarks in U. S. House of RepresentativesConcerning Apprehension of Absentees
July 13, 1848
Mr. HUDSON  would move to reconsider the vote by which the Sergeant-at-arms had been ordered to arrest the absentees. The SPEAKER decided the motion out of order, as the order of the House had already been executed. Mr. HUDSON moved, . . . to dispense with any further proceeding in the call, and that those gentlemen who had been fined have their fines remitted. . . . . Mr. BOTTS  moved the previous question---in order, he remarked, that they might get to the public business. The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Virginia being one of the gentlemen in custody of the Sergeant-at-arms, the Chair cannot recognize him. (Great laughter.) Mr. Lincoln, remarking that he believed he was still a member moved the previous question. 

To John Hogan
Friend Hogan: Washington, July 14- 1848-
Soon after I received yours I went personally to the Genl. Land Office, for the information you desired. Judge Young  took a memorandum, and promised to do what he could. Last night he sent me what accompanies this, which I suppose is all the information can be had. Taylorism seems to be going right, for which, I am very glad. Keep the ball rolling. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To William L. Marcy
Hon: Secretary of War House of Representatives Dear Sir: July 17- 1848
A claim of Dr. A. G. Henry, late of Pekin, Illinois, for transportation, and some other expenses of volunteers, has been in part disallowed by the accounting officers, as not being within the Joint Resolution of March 3, 1847. His account, together with his evidence of it's correctness, is in the Third Auditor's office, and [I] have now to request that you will direct a re-examination of the claim, under the act of June 2, 1848 a printed copy of which herewith enclosed. I also enclose a copy of former proceedings in the case. Very Respectfully A LINCOLN

Remarks in U. S. House of RepresentativesConcerning Bill to Establish Certain Post Routes
July 19, 1848
Mr. LINCOLN, from the same committee, reported a bill to establish certain post routes. Mr. L. explained that this was precisely the same bill that had heretofore been reported by the Committee on the Post Office and Post Roads establishing certain post routes, with the exception of a proviso which had been added at the end, in these words: Provided , That nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as to express any opinion as to the true boundary of any State or Territory named therein. The bill was read twice, and amended by inserting provisions for routes in New Jersey and New York.

Remarks in U. S. House of Representatives
July 24, 1848
Mr. COBB  of Georgia, . . . moved that the message be referred to the Committee on the Territories, and that it be printed. . . . Mr. LINCOLN next obtained the floor amongst many competitors, but he said he apprehended that there was a disposition on the part of the House that the discussion at this time, on this question, should not be longer protracted; he would announce to the House that he desired to make a general speech, and he further announced that if there was now a disposition to take the question now pending, he would give way for that purpose. [``No, no;'' ``go on.''] Mr. VINTON  said he would suggest to the gentleman from Illinois whether it would not be as well to postpone this discussion to some other time. For himself he desired to say a few words about this message, and not on things in general; and he trusted before it was disposed of, that the attention of the House and of the country would be called to the positions of this message. Mr. LINCOLN would say, that he hoped he should have the indulgence of the House, while he expressed his views at some future time; and now; for the accommodation of gentlemen, he would yield the floor.

Speech in U. S. House of Representatives on the Presidential Question
July 27, 1848
GEN: TAYLOR AND THE VETO Mr. Speaker Our democratic friends seem to be in great distress because they think our candidate for the Presidency dont suit us . Most of them can not find out that Gen: Taylor has any principles at all; some, however, have discovered that he has one , but that that one is entirely wrong. This one principle, is his position on the veto power. The gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Stanton)  who has just taken his seat, indeed, has said there is very little if any difference on this question between Gen: Taylor and all the Presidents; and he seems to think it sufficient detraction from Gen: Taylor's position on it, that it has nothing new in it. But all others, whom I have heard speak, assail it furiously. A new member from Kentucky (Mr. Clark)  of very considerable ability, was in particular concern about it. He thought it altogether novel, and unprecedented, for a President, or a Presidential candidate to think of approving bills whose constitutionality may not be entirely clear to his own mind. He thinks the ark of our safety is gone, unless Presidents shall always veto such bills, as in their judgment, may of doubtful constitutionality. However clear congress may be of their authority to pass any particular act, the gentleman from Kentucky thinks the President must veto it if he has doubts about it. Now I have neither time nor inclination to argue with the gentleman on the veto power as an original question; but I wish to show that Gen: Taylor, and not he, agrees with the earlier statesmen on this question. When the bill chartering the first bank of the United States passed Congress, it's constitutionality was questioned. Mr. Madison, then in the House of Representatives, as well as others, had opposed it on that ground. Gen: Washington, as President, was called on to approve or reject it. He sought and obtained on the constitutional question the separate written opinions of Jefferson, Hamilton, and Edmund Randolph; they then being respectively Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, and Attorney General. Hamilton's opinion was for the power; while Randolph's and Jefferson's were both against it. Mr. Jefferson, after giving his opinion decidedly against the constitutionality of that bill, closes his letter with the paragraph which I now read: ``It must be admitted, however, that, unless the President's mind, on a view of every thing, which is urged for and against this bill, is tollerably clear that it is unauthorized by the constitution; if the pro and the con hang so even as to ballance his judgment, a just respect for the wisdom of the legislature, would naturally decide the ballance in favor of their opinion: it is chiefly for cases, where they are clearly misled by error, ambition, or interest, that the constitution has placed a check in the negative of the President. February 15- 1791- Thomas Jefferson-'' Gen: Taylor's opinion, as expressed in his Allison letter, is as I now read: ``The power given by the veto, is a high conservative power; but in my opinion, should never be exercised except in cases of clear violation of the constitution, or manifest haste, and want of consideration by congress.'' It is here seen that, in Mr. Jefferson's opinion, if on the constitutionality of any given bill, the President doubts , he is not to veto it, as the gentleman from Kentucky would have him to do, but is to defer to congress, and approve it. And if we compare the opinions of Jefferson and Taylor, as expressed in these paragraphs, we shall find them more exactly alike, than we can often find any two expressions, having any litteral difference. None but interested faultfinders, I think, can discover any substantial variation.  TAYLOR ON MEASURES OF POLICY But gentlemen on the other side are unanamously agreed that Gen: Taylor has no other principles. They are in utter darkness as to his opinions on any of the questions of policy which occupy the public attention. But is there any doubt as to what he will do on the prominent questions, if elected? Not the least. It is not possible to know what he will, or would do, in every immaginable case; because many questions have passed away, and others doubtless will arise which none of us have yet thought of; but on the prominent questions of Currency, Tariff, internal improvements, and Wilmot Proviso, Gen: Taylor's course is at least as well defined as is Gen: Cass'. Why, in their eagerness to get at Gen: Taylor, several democratic members here, have desired to know whether, in case of his election, a bankrupt law is to be established. Can they tell us Gen: Cass' opinion on this question? (Some member answered ``He is against it'') Aye, how do you know he is? There is nothing about it in the Platform, nor elsewhere that I have seen. If the gentleman knows of any thing, which I do not, he can show it. But to return: Gen: Taylor, in his Allison letter, says ``Upon the subject of the tariff, the currency, the improvements of our great high-ways, rivers, lakes, and harbors, the will of the people, as expressed through their representatives in congress, ought to be respected and carried out by the executive.'' Now this is the whole matter. In substance, it is this: The people say to Gen: Taylor ``If you are elected, shall we have a national bank?'' He answers `` Your will, gentlemen, not mine '' ``What about the Tariff?'' ``Say yourselves.'' ``Shall our rivers and harbours be improved?'' ``Just as you please'' ``If you desire a bank, an alteration of the tariff, internal improvements, any, or all, I will not hinder you; if you do not desire them, I will not attempt to force them on you'' ``Send up your members of congress from the va[rious] districts, with opinions according to your own; and if they are for these measures, or any of them, I shall have nothing to oppose; if they are not for them, I shall not, by any appliances whatever, attempt to dragoon them into their adoption[.]'' Now, can there be any difficulty in understanding this? To you democrats, it may not seem like principle; but surely you can not fail to perceive the position plainly enough. The distinction between it, and the position of your candidate is broad and obvious; and I admit, you have a clear right to show it is wrong if you can; but you have no right to pretend you can not see it at all. We see it; and to us it appears like principle, and the best sort of principle at that---the principle of allowing the people to do as they please with their own business. My friend from Indiana (C. B. Smith) has aptly asked ``Are you willing to trust the people?'' Some of you answered, substantially ``We are willing to trust the trust the [ sic ] people; but the President is as much the representative of the people as Congress.'' In a certain sense, and to a certain extent, he is the representative of the people. He is elected by them, as well as congress is. But can he, in the nature [of] things, know the wants of the people, as well as three hundred other men, coming from all the various localities of the nation? If so, where is the propriety of having a congress? That the constitution gives the President a negative on legislation, all know; but that this negative should be so combined with platforms, and other appliances, as to enable him, and, in fact, almost compel him, to take the whole of legislation into his own hands, is what we object to, is what Gen: Taylor objects to, and is what constitutes the broad distinction between you and us. To thus transfer legislation, is clearly to take it from those who understand, with minuteness, the interests of the people, and give it to one who does not, and can not so well understand it. I understand your idea, that if a Presidential candidate avow his opinion upon a given question, or rather, upon all questions, and the people, with full knowledge of this, elect him, they thereby distinctly approve all those opinions. This, though plausable, is a most pernicious deception. By means of it, measures are adopted or rejected, contrary to the wishes of the whole of one party, and often nearly half of the other. The process is this. Three, four, or half a dozen questions are prominent at a given time; the party selects it's candidate, and he takes his position on each of these questions. On all but one, his positions have already been endorsed at former elections, and his party fully committed to them; but that one is new, and a large portion of them are against it. But what are they to do? The whole are strung together; and they must take all, or reject all. They can not take what they like, and leave the rest. What they are already committed to, being the majority, they shut their eyes, and gulp the whole. Next election, still another is introduced in the same way. If we run our eyes along the line of the past, we shall see that almost, if not quite all the articles of the present democratic creed, have been at first forced upon the party in this very way. And just now, and just so, opposition to internal improvements is to be established, if Gen: Cass shall be elected. Almost half the democrats here, are for improvements; but they will vote for Cass, and if he succeeds, their votes will have aided in closing the doors against improvements. Now this is a process which we think is wrong. We prefer a candidate, who, like Gen: Taylor, will allow the people to have their own way, regardless of his private opinions; and I should think the internal improvement democrats, at least, ought to prefer such a candidate. He would force nothing on them which they dont want, and he would allow them to have improvements, which their own candidate, if elected, will not. Mr. Speaker, I have said Gen: Taylors position is as well defined, as is that of Gen: Cass. In saying this I admit I do not certainly know what he would do on the Wilmot Proviso. I am a Northern man, or rather, a Western free state man, with a constituency I believe to be, and with personal feelings I know to be, against the extension of slavery. As such, and with what information I have, I hope and believe , Gen: Taylor, if elected, would not veto the Proviso. But I do not know it. Yet, if I knew he would, I still would vote for him. I should do so, because, in my judgment, his election alone, can defeat Gen: Cass; and because, should slavery thereby go to the teritory we now have, just so much will certainly happen by the election of Cass; and, in addition, a course of policy, leading to new wars, new acquisitions of teritory and still further extensions of slavery. One of the two is to be President; which is preferable? But there is as much doubt of Cass on improvements, as there is of Taylor on the Proviso. I have no doubt myself of Gen: Cass on this question; but I know the democrats differ among themselves as to his position. My internal improvement colleague (Mr. Wentworth)  stated on this floor the other day that he was satisfied Cass was for improvements, because he had voted for all the bills that he (Mr. W.) had. So far so good; but Mr. Polk vetoed some of these very bills, the Baltimore convention passed a set of resolutions, among other things, approving these vetoes, and Gen: Cass declares, in his letter accepting the nomination, that he has carefully read these resolutions, and that he adheres to them as firmly as he approves them cordially. In other words, Gen: Cass voted for the bills, and thinks the President did right to veto them; and his friends here are amiable enough to consider him as being on one side or the other, just as one or the other may correspond with their own respective inclinations. My colleague admits that the platform declares against the constitutionality of a general system of improvements, and that Gen: Cass endorses the platform; but he still thinks Gen: Cass is in favor of some sort of improvements. Well, what are they? As he is against general objects, those he is for, must be particular and local . Now this is taking the subject precisely by the wrong end. Particularity ---expending the money of the whole people, for an object, which will benefit only a portion of them---is the greatest real objection to improvements, and has been so held by Gen: Jackson, Mr. Polk, and all others, I believe, till now. But now, behold, the objects most general,---nearest free from this objection, are to be rejected, while those most liable to it, are to be embraced. To return; I can not help believing that Gen: Cass, when he wrote his letter of acceptance, well understood he was to be claimed by the advocates of both sides of this question, and that he then closed the door against all further expressions of opinion, purposely to retain the benefits of that double position. His subsequent equivocation at Cleveland, to my mind, proves such to have been the case. One word more, and I shall have done with this branch of the subject. You democrats, and your candidate, in the main are in favor of laying down, in advance, a platform---a set of party positions, as a unit; and then of enforcing the people, by every sort of appliance, to ratify them, however unpalatable some of them may be. We, and our candidate, are in favor of making Presidential elections, and the legislation of the country, distinct matters; so that the people can elect whom they please, and afterwards, legislate just as they please, without any hindrance, save only so much as may guard against infractions of the constitution, undue haste, and want of consideration. The difference between us, is clear as noon- day. That we are right, we can not doubt. We hold the true republican position. In leaving the people's business in their hands, we can not be wrong. We are willing, and even anxious, to go to the people, on this issue. OLD HORSES AND MILITARY COAT TAILS But I suppose I can not reasonably hope to convince you that we have any principles. The most I can expect, is to assure you that we think we have, and are quite contented with them. The other day, one of the gentlemen from Georgia (Mr. Iverson)  an eloquent man, and a man of learning, so far as I could judge, not being learned, myself, came down upon us astonishingly. He spoke in what the Baltimore American calls the ``scathing and withering style.'' At the end of his second severe flash, I was struck blind, and found myself feeling with my fingers for an assurance of my continued physical existence. A little of the bone was left, and I gradually revived. He eulogised Mr. Clay in high and beautiful terms, and then declared that we had deserted all our principles, and had turned Henry Clay out, like an old horse to root. This is terribly severe. It can not be answered by argument; at least, I can not so answer it. I merely wish to ask the gentleman if the whigs are the only party he can think of, who some times turn old horses out to root. Is not a certain Martin Van Buren, an old horses which your own party have turned out to root? and is he not rooting a little to your discomfort about now? But in not nominating Mr. Clay, we deserted our principles, you say. Ah! in what? Tell us, ye men of principles, what principle we violated. We say you did violate principle in discarding Van Buren, and we can tell you how. You violated the primary, the cardinal, the one great living principle of all Democratic representative government---the principle, that the representative is bound to carry out the known will [wishes] of his constituents. A large majority of the Baltimore Convention of 1844, were, by their constituents, instructed to procure Van Buren's nomination if they could. In violation, in utter, glaring contempt of this, you rejected him---rejected him, as the gentleman from New-York (Mr. Birdsall)  the other day, expressly admitted, for availability ---that same ``General availability'' which you charge upon us, and daily chew over here, as something exceedingly odious and unprincipled. But the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Iverson) gave us a second speech yesterday, all well considered, and put down in writing, in which Van Buren was scathed and withered a ``few'' for his present position and movements. I can not remember the gentlemans precise language; but I do remember he put Van Buren down, down, till he got him where he was finally to ``stink'' and ``rot.'' Mr. Speaker, it is no business, or inclination of mine, to defend Martin Van Buren. In the war of extermination now waging between him and his old admirers, I say, devil take the hindmost---and the foremost. But there is no mistaking the origin of the breach; and if the curse of ``stinking'' and ``rotting'' is to fall on the first and greatest violators of principle in the matter, I disinterestedly suggest, that the gentleman from Georgia, and his present co-workers, are bound to take it upon themselves. But the gentleman from Georgia further says we have deserted all our principles, and taken shelter under Gen: Taylor's military coat-tail; and he seems to think this is exceedingly degrading. Well, as his faith is, so be it unto him. But can he remember no other military coat tail under which a certain other party have been sheltering for near a quarter of a century? Has he no acquaintance with the ample military coat tail of Gen: Jackson? Does he not know that his own party have run the five last Presidential races under that coat-tail? and that they are now running the sixth, under the same cover? Yes sir, that coat tail was used, not only for Gen: Jackson himself; but has been clung to, with the gripe of death, by every democratic candidate since. You have never ventured, and dare not now venture, from under it. Your campaign papers have constantly been ``Old Hickories'' with rude likenesses of the old general upon them; hickory poles, and hickory brooms, your never-ending emblems; Mr. Polk himself was ``Young Hickory'' ``Little Hickory'' or something so; and even now, your campaign paper here, is proclaiming that Cass and Butler are of the true ``Hickory stripe.'' No sir, you dare not give it up. Like a horde of hungry ticks you have stuck to the tail of the Hermitage lion to the end of his life; and you are still sticking to it, and drawing a loathsome sustenance from it, after he is dead. A fellow once advertised that he had made a discovery by which he could make a new man out of an old one, and have enough of the stuff left to make a little yellow dog. Just such a discovery has Gen: Jackson's popularity been to you. You not only twice made President of him out of it, but you have had enough of the stuff left, to make Presidents of several comparatively small men since; and it is your chief reliance now to make still another. Mr. Speaker, old horses, and military coat-tails, or tails of any sort, are not figures of speech, such as I would be the first to introduce into discussions here; but as the gentleman from Georgia has thought fit to introduce them, he, and you, are welcome to all you have made, or can make, by them. If you have any more old horses, trot them out; any more tails, just cock them, and come at us. I repeat, I would not introduce this mode of discussion here; but I wish gentlemen on the other side to understand, that the use of degrading figures is a game at which they may not find themselves able to take all the winnings. (We give it up). Aye, you give it up, and well you may; but for a very different reason from that which you would have us understand. The point---the power to hurt---of all figures, consists in the truthfulness of their application; and, understanding this, you may well give it up. They are weapons which hit you, but miss us. MILITARY TAIL OF THE GREAT MICHIGANDER But in my hurry I was very near closing on the subject of military tails before I was done with it. There is one entire article of the sort I have not discussed yet; I mean the military tail you democrats are now engaged in dovetailing onto the great Michigander. Yes sir, all his biographers (and they are legion) have him in hand, tying him to a military tail, like so many mischievous boys tying a dog to a bladder of beans. True, the material they have is very limited; but they drive at it, might and main. He in vaded Canada without resistance, and he out vaded it without pursuit. As he did both under orders, I suppose there was, to him, neither credit or discredit in them; but they [are made to] constitute a large part of the tail. He was not at Hull's surrender, but he was close by; he was volunteer aid to Gen: Harrison on the day of the battle of the Thames; and, as you said in 1840, Harrison was picking huckleberries [whortleberries] two miles off while the battle was fought, I suppose it is a just conclusion with you, to say Cass was aiding Harrison to pick huckleberries [picking whortleberries]. This is about all, except the mooted question of the broken sword. Some authors say he broke it, some say he threw it away, and some others, who ought to know, say nothing about it. Perhaps it would be a fair historical compromise to say, if he did not break it, he did n't do any thing else with it. By the way, Mr. Speaker, did you know I am a military hero? Yes sir; in the days of the Black Hawk war, I fought, bled, and came away. Speaking of Gen: Cass' career, reminds me of my own. I was not at Stillman's defeat, but I was about as near it, as Cass was to Hulls surrender;  and, like him, I saw the place very soon afterwards. It is quite certain I did not break my sword, for I had none to break; but I bent a musket pretty badly on one occasion. If Cass broke his sword, the idea is, he broke it in de[s]peration; I bent the musket by accident. If Gen: Cass went in advance of me in picking huckleberries [whortleberries], I guess I surpassed him in charges upon the wild onions. If he saw any live, fighting indians, it was more than I did; but I had a good many bloody struggles with the musquetoes; and, although I never fainted from loss of blood, I can truly say I was often very hungry. Mr. Speaker, if I should ever conclude to doff whatever our democratic friends may suppose there is of black cockade federalism about me, and thereupon, they shall take me up as their candidate for the Presidency, I protest they shall not make fun of me, as they have of Gen: Cass, by attempting to write me into a military hero. CASS ON THE WILMOT PROVISO While I have Gen: Cass in hand, I wish to say a word about his political principles. As a specimen, I take the record of his progress on the Wilmot Proviso. In the Washington Union, of March 2nd. 1847, there is a report of a speech of Gen: Cass, made the day before, in the Senate, on the Wilmot Proviso, during the delivery of which, Mr. Miller,  of New Jersey, is reported to have interupted him as follows, towit: ``Mr. Miller expressed his great surprise at the change in the sentiments of the senator from Michigan, who had been regarded as the great champion of freedom in the North West, of which he was a distinguished ornament. Last year the senator from Michigan was understood to be decidedly in favor of the Wilmot Proviso; and, as no reason had been stated for the change, he (Mr. M.) could not refrain from the expression of his extreme surprise[.]'' To this, Gen: Cass is reported to have replied as follows, towit: ``Mr. Cass said that the course of the senator from New-Jersey was most extraordinary. Last year he (Mr. C) should have voted for the proposition had it come up. But circumstances had altogether changed. The honorable senator then read several passages from the remarks, as given above, which he had committed to writing, in order to refute such a charge as that of the senator from New-Jersey[.]'' In the ``remarks above committed to writing'' is one numbered 4 as follows, towit ``4th. Legislation now would be wholly inopperative, because no teritory hereafter to be acquired can be governed, without an act of congress providing for its government. And such an act, on it's passage, would open the whole subject, and leave the congress, called on to pass it, free to exercise it's own discretion, entirely uncontrolled by any declaration found on the statute book[.]'' In Niles' Register, Vol. 73, page 293, there is a letter of Gen: Cass to [A.O.P.] Nicholson, of Nashville, Tenn. dated Decr. 24th. 1847, from which, the following are correct extracts--- ``The Wilmot Proviso has been before the country some time. It has been repeatedly discussed in congress, and by the public press. I am strongly impressed with the opinion that a great change has been going on in the public mind upon this subject---in my own as well as others; and that doubts are resolving themselves into convictions, that the principle it involves should be kept out of the national legislature, and left to the people of the confederacy in their respective local government[.]'' * * * ``Briefly, then, I am opposed to the exercise of any jurisdiction by congress over this matter; and I am in favor of leaving the people of any teritory which may be hereafter acquired, the right to regulate it themselves, under the general principles of the constitution; Because 1. I do not see in the constitution any grant of the requisite power to congress; and I am not disposed to extend a doubtful precedent beyond it's necessity---the establishment of teritorial governments when needed---leaving to the inhabitants all the rights compatable with the relations they bear to the confederation.'' These extracts show that, in 1846, Gen: Cass was for the Proviso at once ; that in March 1847, he was still for it, but not just then ; and that, in Decr. 1847 he was against it altogether. This is a true index to the whole man. When the question was raised in 1846, he was in a blustering hurry to take ground for it. He sought to be in advance, and to avoid the uninteresting position of a mere follower; but soon he began to see glimpses of the great democratic ox-gad waving in his face, and to hear, indistinctly, a voice saying ``Back'' ``Back sir'' ``Back a little.'' He shakes his head, and bats his eyes, and blunders back to his position of March 1847; but still the gad waves, and the voice grows more distinct, and sharper still ``Back sir'' ``Back I say'' ``Further back''; and back he goes, to the position of Decr. 1847, at which the gad is still, and the voice soothingly says ``So'' ``Stand at that.'' Have no fears, gentlemen, of your candidate. He exactly suits you, and we congratulate you upon it. However much you may be distressed about our candidate, you have all cause to be contented and happy with your own. If elected, he may not maintain all, or even any of his positions previously taken; but he will be sure to do whatever the party exigency, for the time being, may require; and that is precisely what you want. He and Van Buren are the same ``manner of men''; and, like Van Buren, he will never desert you , till you first desert him . CASS ON WORKING AND EATING Mr. Speaker, I adopt the suggestion of a friend, that Gen: Cass is a General of splendidly successful charges ---charges, to be sure, not upon the public enemy, but upon the public Treasury. He, was governor of Michigan Teritory, and ex-officio, superintendent of indian affairs, from the 9th. of October 1813 till the 31st. of July 1931, a period of seventeen years, nine months, and twenty-two days. During this period, he received from the U.S. Treasury, for personal services, and personal expenses, the aggregate sum of $96.028, being an average [sum] of $14.79 cents per day, for every day of the time. This large sum was reached, by assuming that he was doing service, and incurring expenses, at several different places , and in several different capacities in the same place, all at the same time . By a correct analysis of his accounts, during that period, the following propositions may be deduced--- First: He was paid in three different capacities during the whole of the time---that is to say--- 1. As governor's salary, at the rate per year of $2000. 2. As estimated for office-rent, clerk-hire[,] fuel &c in superintendence of indian affairs in Michigan, at the rate per year of $1500 3. As compensation and expenses, for various miscellaneous, items of indian service out of Michigan, an average per year of---$625 Second: During part of the time, that is, from the 9th. of October 1813, to the 29th. of May 1822, he was paid in four different capacities---that is to say--- The three as above, and, in addition thereto, the commutation of ten rations per day, amounting, per year, to $730. Third: During another part of the time, that is, from the beginning of 1822 to the 31st. of July 1831, he was also paid in four different capacities, that is to say---The first three, as above (the rations being dropped after the 29th. of May 1822) and, in addition thereto, for superintending indian agencies at Piqua, Ohio, Fort Wayne, Indiana, and Chicago, Illinois, at the rate per year of $1500. It should be observed here, that the last item, commencing at the beginning of 1822; and the item of rations, ending on the 29th. of May 1822, lap on each other, during [for] so much of the time as lies between those two dates. Fourth: Still another part of the time, that is, from the 31st. of October 1821 to the 29th. of May 1822, he was paid in six different capacities---that is to say--- The three first, as above, the item of rations, as above; and, in addition thereto, another item of ten rations per day, while at Washington, settling his accounts, being at the rate per year of $730. And also, an allowance for expenses traveling to and from Washington, and while there, of $1022, being at the rate per year of $1793. Fifth: And yet during the little portion of the time which lies between the 1st. of Jany. 1822, and the 29th. of May 1822, he was paid in seven different capacities, that is to say--- The six, last mentioned, and also, at the rate of $1500 per year, for the Piqua, Fort Wayne, and Chicago service, as mentioned above. These accounts have already been discussed some here; but when we are amongst them, as when we are in the Patent Office, we must peep about a good while before we can see all the curiosities. I shall not be tedious with them. As to the large item of $1500 per year amounting in the aggregate, to $26.715 for office-rent, clerk-hire, fuel &c. I barely wish to remark that, so far as I can discover in the public documents, there is no evidence, by word or inference, either from any disinterested witness or of Gen: Cass himself, that he ever rented, or kept a separate office; ever hired or kept a clerk; or ever used any extra amount of fuel &c. in consequence of his indian services. Indeed, Gen. Cass' entire silence in regard to these items, in his two long letters urging his claims upon the government, is, to my mind, almost conclusive that no such items had any real existence. But I have introduced Gen: Cass' accounts here chiefly to show the wonderful physical capacities of the man. They show that he not only did the labor of several men at the same time ; but that he often did it at several places , many hundreds of miles apart, at the same time. And, at eating too, his capacities are shown to be quite as wonderful. From October 1821 to May 1822, he ate ten rations a day in Michigan, ten rations a day here in Washington, and near five dollars worth a day [besides, partly] on the road between the two places! And then there is an important discovery in his example---the art of being paid for what one eats, instead of having to pay for it. Hereafter if any nice young man shall owe a bill which he can not pay in any other way, he can just board it out. Mr. Speaker, we have all heard of the animal standing in doubt between two stacks of hay, and starving to death. The like of that would never happen to Gen: Cass; place the stacks a thousand miles apart, he would stand stock still midway between them, and eat them both at once; and the green grass along the line would be apt to suffer some too at the same time. By all means, make him President, gentlemen. He will feed you bounteously,---if---if there is any left after he shall have helped himself. THE WHIGS AND THE WAR But, as Gen: Taylor is, par excellence, the hero of the Mexican war; and, as you democrats say we whigs have always opposed the war, you think it must be very awk[w]ard and embarrassing for us to go for Gen: Taylor. The declaration that we have always opposed the war, is true or false, accordingly as one may understand the term ``opposing the war.'' If to say ``the war was unnecessarily and unconstitutionally commenced by the President'' be opposing the war, then the whigs have very generally opposed it. Whenever they have spoken at all, they have said this; and they have said it on what has appeared good reason to them. The marching [of] an army into the midst of a peaceful Mexican settlement, frightening the inhabitants away, leaving their growing crops, and other property to destruction, to you may appear a perfectly amiable, peaceful, unprovoking procedure; but it does not appear so to us . So to call such an act, to us appears no other than a naked, impudent absurdity, and we speak of it accordingly. But if, when the war had begun, and had become the cause of the country, the giving of our money and our blood, in common with yours, was support of the war, then it is not true that we have always opposed the war. With few individual exceptions, you have constantly had our votes here for all the necessary supplies. And, more than this, you have had the services, the blood, and the lives of our political bretheren in every trial, and on every field. The beardless boy, and the mature man---the humble and the distinguished, you have had them. Through suffering and death, by disease, and in battle, they have endured, and fought, and fell with you. Clay and Webster each gave a son, never to be returned. From the state of my own residence, besides other worthy but less known whig names, we sent Marshall, Morrison, Baker, and Hardin;  they all fought, and one fell; and in the fall of that one, we lost our best whig man. Nor were the whigs few in number, or laggard in the day of danger. In that fearful, bloody, breathless struggle at Buena Vista, where each man's hard task was to beat back five foes or die himself, of the five high officers who perished, four were whigs. In speaking of this, I mean no odious comparison between the lion-hearted whigs and democrats who fought there. On other occasions, and among the lower officers and privates on that occasion, I doubt not the proportion was different. I wish to do justice to all. I think of all those brave men as Americans, in whose proud fame, as an American, I too have a share. Many of them, whigs and democrats, are my constituents and personal friends; and I thank them---more than thank them---one and all, for the high, imperishable honor they have confered on our common state. But the distinction between the cause of the President in beginning the war, and the cause of the country after it was begun, is a distinction which you can not perceive. To you the President, and the country, seems to be all one. You are interested to see no distinction between them; and I venture to suggest that possibly your interest blinds you a little. We see the distinction, as we think, clearly enough; and our friends who have fought in the war have no difficulty in seeing it also. What those who have fallen would say were they alive and here, of course we can never know; but with those who have returned there is no difficulty. Col: Haskell, and Major Gaines,  members here, both fought in the war; and one of them underwent extraordinary perils and hardships; still they, like all other whigs here, vote, on the record, that the war was unnecessarily and unconstitutionally commenced by the President. And even Gen: Taylor himself, the noblest Roman of them all, has declared that as a citizen, and particularly as a soldier, it is sufficient for him to know that his country is at war with a foreign nation, to do all in his power to bring it to a speedy and honorable termination, by the most vigorous and energetic opperations, without enquiring about it's justice, or any thing else connected with it. Mr. Speaker, let our democratic friends be comforted with the assurance, that we are content with our position, content with our company, and content with our candidate; and that although they, in their generous sympathy, think we ought to be miserable, we really are not, and that they may dismiss the great anxiety they have on our account. DIVIDED GANGS OF HOGS Mr. Speaker, I see I have but three minutes left, and this forces me to throw out one whole branch of my subject. A single word on still another. The democrats are kind enough to frequently remind us that we have some dissensions in our ranks. Our good friend from Baltimore, immediately before me (Mr. McLane)  expressed some doubt the other day as to which branch of our party, Gen: Taylor would ultimately fall into the hands of. That was a new idea to me. I knew [that] we had dissenters, but I did not know they were trying to get our candidate away from us. I would like to say a word to our dissenters, but I have not the time. Some such we certainly have; have you none, gentlemen democrats? Is it all union and harmony in your ranks?---no bickerings?---no divisions? If there be doubt as to which of our divisions will get our candidate, is there no doubt as to which of your candidates will get your party? I have heard some things from New-York; and if they are true, one might well say of your party there, as a drunken fellow once said when he heard the reading of an indictment for hog-stealing. The clerk read on till he got to, and through the words ``did steal, take, and carry away, ten boars, ten sows, ten shoats, and ten pigs'' at which he exclaimed ``Well, by golly, that is the most equally divided gang of hogs, I ever did hear of.'' If there is any other gang of hogs more equally divided than the democrats of NewYork are about this time, I have not heard of it.

To William Schouler
Friend Schooler: Washington, Aug: [8?] 1848
` I am remaining here for two weeks to frank documents. Now that the Presidential candidates are all set, I will thank you for your undisguised opinion as to what New England generally, and Massachusetts particularly will do. Your opinion as to the nomination of Taylor held so good, that I have some confidence in your predictions. Very truly yours A. LINCOLN

Remarks in U. S. House of Representatives
August 14, 1848
Mr. LINCOLN asked the attention of the House for a moment, for the purpose of saying that the Committee on the Expenditures of the War Department, to whom had been referred the message of the President transmitting a statement of the receipts from the treasury of Generals Cass and Taylor, had prepared a short report, the substance of which was, that they recommended the printing of the message of the President and accompanying documents, together with certain documents which had heretofore been committed to that committee, on the subject of the accounts of General Cass. If objections were made, he asked a suspension of the rules to enable him to move, in accordance with this report, the printing of the message and the said documents. 

Whig Circular Letter
SIR: WASHINGTON. [August 17] 1848.
The Whig Members of Congress have, as heretofore, appointed an ``EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE'' to watch over the interests of the Whig party in the present canvass. In the discharge of their duties, the Committee have already made arrangements to supply every section of the country with useful information, such as is usually contained in political pamphlets and Congressional speeches. It is highly important, especially as the labors of the Committee will continue without interruption from this time until the election in November, that full lists of names, to whom their publications may be sent, should be furnished them as soon as practicable. You cannot fail to estimate the excellent results which have been and may be produced by this plan of operation, nor yet to understand that its efficiency will be controlled, in a great degree, by the promptitude with which their Whig friends second the efforts of those entrusted with its execution. It is believed that all that is necessary to secure the election of Gen. Taylor, is for correct information to reach the mass of the people. I therefore earnestly request that you will lose no time in forwarding lists for your neighborhood  to Hon. Wm. B. Preston, Hon. Truman Smith, Hon. T. Butler King, or Hon. C. B. Smith, at Washington City, D.C. I would suggest that the names of the Whigs be distinguished from those of the more moderate of our opponents, and that the most active and influential Whigs be also designated from the general number. The names of individuals, and their Post Office and County, should also be distinctly written. Your immediate attention to this subject will be gratifying to the Committee, who will be glad to hear from you, occasionally, the condition of the Whig cause in your immediate section. Should you write, direct your letters to the gentlemen, or either of them, whose names have been given you. I have the honor to be, with high respect, yours, &c., A. LINCOLN P S. Your name has been given us by Mr. Griffith of Va.  Respfy yrs &c

To William Schouler
Washington, August 28, 1848.
Friend Schooler.---Your letter of the 21st was received two or three days ago, and for which please accept my thanks, both for your courtesy and the encouraging news in it. The news we are receiving here now from all parts is on the look-up. We have had several letters from Ohio to-day, all encouraging. Two of them inform us that Hon. C. B. Smith, on his way here, addressed a larger and more enthusiastic audience, at Cincinnati, than has been seen in that city since 1840. Smith himself wrote one of the letters; and he says the signs are decidedly good. Letters from the Reserve are of the same character. The tone of the letters---free from despondency---full of hope---is what particularly encourages me. If a man is scared when he writes, I think I can detect it, when I see what he writes. I would rather not be put upon explaining how Logan  was defeated in my district. In the first place I have no particulars from there, my friends, supposing I am on the road home, not having written me. Whether there was a full turn out of the voters I have as yet not learned. The most I can now say is that a good many Whigs, without good cause, as I think, were unwilling to go for Logan, and some of them so wrote me before the election. On the other hand Harris  was a Major of the war, and fought at Cerro Gordo, where several Whigs of the district fought with him. These two facts and their effects, I presume tell the whole story. That there is any political change against us in the district I cannot believe; because I wrote some time ago to every county of the district for an account of changes; and, in answer I got the names of four against us, eighty-three for us. I dislike to predict, but it seems to me the district must and will be found right side up again in November. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Young
W. H. Young: Washington, Dear Sir: Aug: 28 1848
Your letter enquiring after land warrants has been received, and I have left it with the Commissioner of Pensions, with a special request, in writing that he attend to it, and write you. You will hear from him before long. As to the three months extra pay; Pay-masters are to go round and pay it to the volunteers in their respective vicinities. Advertisements will go in advance of them, and no forms are necessary, as I understand it. Yours truly A LINCOLN

