To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Major General Banks Washington, Nov. 5. 1863.
Three months ago to-day I wrote you about Louisiana affairs, stating, on the word of Gov. Shepley, as I understood him, that Mr. Durant was taking a registry of citizens, preparatory to the election of a constitutional convention for that State. I sent a copy of the letter to Mr. Durant; and I now have his letter, written two months after, acknowledging receipt, and saying he is not taking such registry; and he does not let me know that he personally is expecting to do so. Mr. Flanders, to whom I also sent a copy, is now here, and he says nothing has yet been done. This disappoints me bitterly; yet I do not throw blame on you or on them. I do however, urge both you and them, to lose no more time. Gov. Shepley has special instructions from the War Department. I wish him---these gentlemen and others co-operating---without waiting for more territory, to go to work and give me a tangible nucleus which the remainder of the State may rally around as fast as it can, and which I can at once recognize and sustain as the true State government. And in that work I wish you, and all under your command, to give them a hearty sympathy and support. The instruction to Gov. Shepley bases the movement (and rightfully too) upon the loyal element. Time is important. There is danger, even now, that the adverse element seeks insidiously to pre-occupy the ground. If a few professedly loyal men shall draw the disloyal about them, and colorably set up a State government, repudiating the emancipation proclamation, and re-establishing slavery, I can not recognize or sustain their work. I should fall powerless in the attempt. This government, in such an attitude, would be a house divided against itself. I have said, and say again, that if a new State government, acting in harmony with this government, and consistently with general freedom, shall think best to adopt a reasonable temporary arrangement, in relation to the landless and homeless freed people, I do not object; but my word is out to be for and not against them on the question of their permanent freedom. I do not insist upon such temporary arrangement, but only say such would not be objectionable to me. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt

Execution suspended till further orders. Nov. 5. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, D.C., November 5, 1863.
Please suspend the execution of Samuel Wellers, Forty-ninth Pennsylvania Volunteers, until further orders. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let private Noble be discharged. A. LINCOLN. Nov. 6. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If Gen. Whipple is entitled to have an Assistant Adjutant General appointed, let the appointment be made as within requested. Nov. 6. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To Isaac R. Diller
Capt. Isaac R. Diller Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, Nov. 7, 1863.
I must decline to take charge of Dr. Wetherell's interests. If he presents a claim to congress, or the court of Claims, I shall be ready to testify the whole truth, so far as within my knowledge. As to my ordering him back to the Agricultural Department, and fixing his Salary as you and he may think right, it is wholly inadmissable. The law does not authorize me to do any of these things Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 7, 1863
Please have an enquiry made at once, whether Dr. E. Z. Baird may not be allowed to return to his home in Mississippi.

To William B. Astor and Robert B. Roosevelt
William B. Astor & Robt. B. Rosevelt Washington City, New-York Nov. 8 1863
I shall be happy to give the interview to the committee as you request. A. LINCOLN.

To Samuel C. Pomeroy
Private . Executive Department Hon. S. C. Pomeroy Washington City My dear Sir: Nov. 8th. 1863
I have examined Killingworths evidence in Capt. Levy's case, and I must say it makes too bad a record to admit of my interference---in fact, it could not be worse. In the nature of the case, K. alone, of all competent witnesses, can know whether Capt. L's hypothesis is true or false; and he most fully disproves it. He fully proves also that Capt. L. sought to have him testify falsely. To interfere, under the circumstances, would blacken my own character. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John J. Astor, Jr., and Others
Private, except to Gen. Dix Executive Mansion Washington DC. Nov. 9. 1863
Gentlemen Upon the subject of your letter I have to say that it is beyond my province to interfere with New-York City politics; that I am very grateful to Gen. Dix for the zealous and able Military, and quasi civil support he has given the government during the war; and that if the people of New-York should tender him the Mayoralty, and he accept it, nothing on that subject could be more satisfactory to me. In this I must not be understood as saying ought against any one, or as attempting the least degree of dictation in the matter. To state it in another way, if Gen. Dix' present relation to the general government lays any restraint upon him in this matter, I wish to remove that restraint. Yours truly Messrs. J. J. Astor, Jr. A. LINCOLN R. B. Rosevelt Nathl Sands.

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major Gen. Burnside Washington, D.C., Knoxville, Tenn. Nov. 9. 1863.
Have seen despatch from Gen. Grant about your loss at Rogersville.  Per-contra , about the same time Averell & Duffie got considerable advantage of the enemy at and about Lewisburg Va;  and on Saturday, the 7th. Meade drove the enemy from Rappahannockstation, and Kellys-ford, capturing 8 battle-flags, four guns, and over eighteen hundred prisoners, with very little loss to himself. Let me hear from you. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Flanders
Hon. B. F. Flanders Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Washington, D.C. Nov. 9. 1863
In a conversation with Gen. Butler he made a suggestion which impressed me a good deal at the time. It was that, as a preliminary step, a vote be taken, yea or nay, whether there shall be a State convention to repeal the Ordinance of secession, and remodel the State constitution. I send it merely as a suggestion for your consideration, not having considered it maturely myself. The point which impressed me was, not so much the questions to be voted on, as the effect of chrystallizing, so to speak, in taking such popular vote on any proper question. In fact, I have always thought the act of secession is legally nothing, and needs no repealing. Turn the thought over in your mind, and see if in your own judgment, you can make any thing of it. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Stephen T. Logan
Executive Mansion, Dear Judge Washington, Nov. 9, 1863.
Col. Lamon had made his calculation, as he tells me, to go to Illinois and bring Mrs. L. home this month, when he was called on to act as Marshal on the occasion of dedicating the Cemetery at Gettysburg Pa on the 19th. He came to me, and I told him I thought that in view of his relation to the government and to me, he could not well decline. Now, why would it not be pleasant for you to come on with Mrs. L. at that time? It will be an interesting ceremony, and I shall be very glad to see you. I know not whether you would care to remain to the meeting of congress, but that event, as you know, will be very near at hand. Your friend as ever A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Washington, Major-General Meade: November 9, 1863---7.30 p.m.
I have seen your dispatches about operations on the Rappahannock on Saturday, and I wish to say, ``Well done.'' Do the 1,500 prisoners reported by General Sedgwick include the 400 taken by General French, or do the whole amount to 1,900? A. LINCOLN.

To John E. Mulford
Major Mulford Washington, D.C., Fort Monroe Nov. 9th 1863
Let Mrs. Clark go with Mrs. Todd A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Export of Tobacco
Executive Mansion, Nov. 10, 1863.
In consideration of peculiar circumstances, and pursuant to the comity deemed to be due to friendly Powers, any tobacco in the United States, belonging to the Government either of France, Austria, or any other State with which this country is at peace, and which tobacco was purchased and paid for by such Government prior to the 4th day of March, 1861, may be exported from any port of the United States, under the supervision and upon the responsibility of naval officers of such Governments, and in conformity to such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary of State of the United States, and not otherwise. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To John M. Schofield
Gen. Schofield Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Mo. Nov. 10. 1863
I see a despatch here from St. Louis which is a little difficult for me to understand. It says ``Gen. Schofield has refused leave of absence to members in Military service to attend the Legislature. All such are radical and Administration men. The election of two Senators from this place on Thursday will probably turn upon this thing'' What does this mean? Of course members of the Legislature must be allowed to attend it's sessions. But how is there a session before the recent election returns are in? And how is it to be at `` this place ''---that is---St Louis? Please inform me. A. LINCOLN

To Hiram Barney
Hon. Hiram Barney Executive Mansion New-York. Washington, D.C. Nov. 11. 1863
I would like an interview with you. Can you not come? A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery Blair
Hon. M. Blair Executive Mansion Washington D.C. My dear Sir Nov. 11. 1863
Mr. Crisfield's letter which you inclose, is received. Let Mr. S.  procure the sworn statement of the election judges at any voting place, as to what may be deemed the misconduct of any military officer, and present it to me, and I will call any such officer to account who shall by such statement appear to have violated, or transcended his orders. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To John Milderborger
John Milderborger Executive Mansion Peru, Indiana. Washington D.C. Nov. 11. 1863
I can-not comprehend the object of your despatch. I do not often decline seeing people who call upon me; and probably will see you if you call. A. LINCOLN.

To John M. Schofield
Gen. Schofield Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Mo Nov. 11 1863
I believe the Secretary of War has telegraphed you about members of the Legislature. At all events, allow those in the service to attend the session; and we can afterwards decide, whether they can stay through the entire session. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Nov. 11, 1863.
What is there about Major, or Capt. Beckwith? Signs appear that an unusual commotion is to occur somehow in this connection. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Nov. 11, 1863.
I personally wish Jacob R. Freese, of New-Jersey to be appointed a Colonel for a colored regiment---and this regardless of whether he can tell the exact shade of Julius Caesar's hair. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Please let Gen. Harrow withdraw his resignation, & return to the service. A. LINCOLN Nov. 11. 1863.

To John D. Defrees

Mr. Defrees---Please see this girl who works in your office, and find out about her brother, and come and tell me. November 12, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Richard C. Vaughan or Officer in Command at Lexington, Missouri
Gen. Vaughan, or Executive Mansion, Officer in Command Washington, Lexington, Mo. Nov. 12. 1863.
Let execution of William H. Ogden be suspended until further order from me. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Edward Bates Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Nov. 13, 1863.
Herewith I return the papers of the Western Sanitary Commission. You see an indorsement thereon, made by the Secretary of War, which expresses his view. While I approve heartily the object of the commission, I wish to do nothing unsatisfactory to the War Department, in a matter pertaining to it's business. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To E. H. E. Jameson
E. H. & E. Jameson Washington, D.C., Jefferson City, My [ sic ] Nov. 13. 1863
Yours saying Brown and Henderson are elected Senators, is received. I understand, this is one and one. If so, it is knocking heads together to some purpose. A. LINCOLN

Reply to John Conness upon Presentation of a Cane
November 13, 1863
The President then accepted the cane, and, with much emotion, replied that he never personally knew the Senator's friend, Mr. Broderick, but he had always heard him spoken of as one sincerely devoted to the cause of human rights. Testimony to this point of his character had been borne by those whom he had not intimately known, as also by those with whom he was personally and intimately acquainted, and, with all of them, the testimony had been uniform. The memento which was presented him by Senator Conness was of that class of things, the highest honor that could be conferred upon him. If, in the position he had been placed, he had done anything that entitled him to the honor the Senator had assigned him, it was a proud reflection that his acts were of such a character as to merit the affiliation of the friends of a man like David C. Broderick. Whether remaining in this world or looking down upon the earth from the spirit land, to be remembered by such a man as David C. Broderick was a fact he would remember through all the years of his life. The proudest ambition he could desire was to do something for the elevation of the condition of his fellow-man. In conclusion, he returned his sincere thanks for the part the Senator bore in this presentation, and to the memory of his great friend.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Washington, D.C., Cincinnati, O., Nov. 14 1863 [12:15 P.M.]
I have received and considered your despatch of yesterday. Of the Reports you mention I have not the means of seeing any except your own. Besides this the publication might be improper in view of the Court of Inquiry which has been ordered. With every disposition, not merely to do justice, but to oblige you, I feel constrained to say I think the publication better not be made now. A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside Washington City, Knoxville, Tenn. Nov. 16. 1863
What is the news? A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Edward L. Hale
Executive Mansion, Washington, Copy. November 16, 1863.
On condition that Edward L. Hale, named within, faithfully serves in his present position, until honorably discharged, he is fully pardoned for the desertion mentioned. A LINCOLN Nov. 16. 1863

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Nov. 17, 1863.
Please send me an appointment for Richard Busteed of N. Y. to be Judge in Northern Alabama, in place of --- Lane deceased. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Secretary of the Treasury Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Nov. 17. 1863.
I expected to see you here at Cabinet meeting, and to say something about going to Gettysburg. There will be a train to take and return us. The time for starting is not yet fixed; but when it shall be, I will notify you. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase

Hon. Sec. of Treasury please see and hear Mr. M. V. Hall one of the best men in northern Illinois. A. LINCOLN. Nov. 17. 1863.

Memorandum: Appointment of Philo P. Judson

Good recommendations for a Quarter-Master, or Commissary Nov. 17. 1863. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Union Pacific Railroad
Executive Mansion, Washington, November 17. 1863.
In pursuance of the fourteenth Section of the act of congress, entitled ``An act to aid in the construction of a Railroad and Telegraph Line from the Missouri river to the Pacific ocean, and to secure to the Government the use of the same for postal, military, and other purposes'' Approved July 1, 1862, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby fix so much of the Western boundary of the State of Iowa as lies between the North and South boundaries of the United States Township, within which the City of Omaha is situated, as the point from which the line of railroad and telegraph in that section mentioned, shall be constructed. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
[November 17, 1863]
I do not like this arrangement. I do not wish to so go that by the slightest accident we fail entirely, and, at the best, the whole to be a mere breathless running of the gauntlet. But, any way. A. LINCOLN.

Remarks to Citizens of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
November 18, 1863
I appear before you, fellow-citizens, merely to thank you for this compliment. The inference is a very fair one that you would hear me for a little while at least, were I to commence to make a speech. I do not appear before you for the purpose of doing so, and for several substantial reasons. The most substantial of these is that I have no speech to make. [Laughter.] In my position it is somewhat important that I should not say any foolish things. A VOICE---If you can help it. Mr. LINCOLN---It very often happens that the only way to help it is to say nothing at all. [Laughter.] Believing that is my present condition this evening, I must beg of you to excuse me from addressing you further.

Address Delivered at the Dedication of the Cemetery at Gettysburg
November 19, 1863
Executive Mansion, Washington, , 186 Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth, upon this continent, a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that ``all men are created equal'' Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived, and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battle field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of it, as a final resting place for those who died here, that the nation might live. This we may, in all propriety do. But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate---we can not consecrate---we can not hallow, this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have hallowed it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here; while it can never forget what they did here. It is rather for us, the living, we here be dedicated  [ Second Page ] to the great task remaining before us---that, from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here, gave the last full measure of devotion---that we here highly resolve these dead shall not have died in vain; that the nation, shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people by the people for the people, shall not perish from the earth. SECOND DRAFT  Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth, upon this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation, so conceived, and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met here  on a great battle-field of that war. We have come  to dedicate a portion of it as a  final resting place for  those who  here gave their lives that that nation might live. It  is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But in a larger sense we can not dedicate---we can not consecrate---we can not hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated  it far above our poor  power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember, what we say here, but  can never forget what they did here. It is  for us, the living, rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they have, thus far, so nobly carried on. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us---that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that  cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion---that we here highly resolve that  these dead shall not have died in vain; that this  nation shall have a new birth of freedom; and that this  government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. NEWSPAPER VERSION  Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth upon this continent a new Nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. [Applause.] Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that Nation or any Nation so conceived and so dedicated can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We are met to dedicate a portion of it as the final resting-place of those who here gave  their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But in a larger sense we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men living and dead who struggled here have consecrated it far above our power  to add or detract. [Applause.] The world will little note nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. [Applause.] It is for us, the living, rather to be dedicated here to the refinished  work that they have thus far so nobly carried on. [Applause.] It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us, that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion; that we here highly resolve that the  dead shall not have died in vain [applause]; that the nation shall, under God, have a new birth of freedom; and that Governments  of the people, by the people, and  for the people, shall not perish from the earth. [Long-continued applause.] EDWARD EVERETT COPY  Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth upon this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived, and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field,  as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives, that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate---we can not consecrate---we can not hallow---this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember, what we say here, but it  can never forget what they did here. It is for us, the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who  fought here, have, thus far, so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us---that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion---that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain---that this nation, under God,  shall have a new birth of freedom---and that, government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. GEORGE BANCROFT COPY  Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth, on  this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived, and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final resting-place for those who here gave their lives, that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate---we can not consecrate---we can not hallow---this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us---that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion---that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain---that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom---and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. FINAL TEXT  Address delivered at the dedication of the Cemetery at Gettysburg. Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate---we can not consecrate---we can not hallow---this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us---that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they  gave the last full measure of devotion---that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain---that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom---and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. November 19. 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Henry B. Blood

Capt. Blood furnish one Horse for bearer Nov. 19. 1863 A LINCOLN

To Zachariah Chandler
Private Hon. Z. Chandler Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Nov. 20. 1863.
Your letter of the 15th. marked `` private '' was received to-day. I have seen Gov. Morgan and Thurlow Weed, separately, but not together, within the last ten days; but neither of them mentioned the forthcoming message, or said anything, so far as I can remember, which brought the thought of the Message to my mind. I am very glad the elections this autumn have gone favorably, and that I have not, by native depravity, or under evil influences, done anything bad enough to prevent the good result. I hope to ``stand firm'' enough to not go backward, and yet not go forward fast enough to wreck the country's cause. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Everett
Hon. Edward Everett. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Nov. 20, 1863.
Your kind note of to-day is received. In our respective parts yesterday, you could not have been excused to make a short address, nor I a long one. I am pleased to know that, in your judgment, the little I did say was not entirely a failure. Of course I knew Mr. Everett would not fail; and yet, while the whole discourse was eminently satisfactory, and will be of great value, there were passages in it which trancended my expectation. The point made against the theory of the general government being only an agency, whose principals are the States, was new to me, and, as I think, is one of the best arguments for the national supremacy. The tribute to our noble women for their angel-ministering to the suffering soldiers, surpasses, in its way, as do the subjects of it, whatever has gone before. Our sick boy, for whom you kindly inquire, we hope is past the worst. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion Army of Potomac Washington D.C. Nov. 20. 1863
If there is a man by the name of King under sentence to be shot, please suspend execution till further order, and send record. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major Gen. Meade Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac Washington, Nov. 20, 1863.
An intelligent woman [in] deep distress, called this morning, saying her husband, a Lieutenant in the A.P. was to be shot next Monday for desertion; and putting a letter in my hand, upon which I relied for particulars, she left without mentioning a name, or other particular by which to identify the case. On opening the letter I found it equally vague, having nothing to identify by, except her own signature, which seems to be ``Mrs. Anna S. King'' I could not again find her. If you have a case which you shall think is probably the one intended, please apply my despatch of this morning to it. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Richard S. Hayes
West-Point--- [November 20, 1863]
Richard Somers Hayes---is Grandson of Com. Bainbridge, and Grandnephew of Coms. Barry & Somers. His mother, now a widow, is daughter of Com. Bainbridge.

To Robert C. Schenck
Major General Schenck Executive Mansion, Baltimore, Md. Washington, Nov. 20, 1863.
It is my wish that neither Maynadier, nor Gordon, be executed without my further order. Please act upon this. A. LINCOLN

To Robert C. Schenck
November 20, 1863
Major General Schenck will put on trial before a Military commission, Capt. Moore, mentioned within for having transcended General Order No. 53, in arresting the Judges of election, and for having hindered Arthur Crisfield, from voting, notwithstanding his willingness to take the oath in said order prescribed. Let Hon. John W. Crisfield be notified of time and place, and witnesses named by him as well as by Capt. Moore, be examined. Let time and place be reasonably convenient to witnesses, and full record kept & preserved. A. LINCOLN Nov. 20. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Nov. 20, 1863.
Please see and hear the Attorney General, and oblige him in what he will ask in regard to a niece of his who is in distress. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 20, 1863
Hon. Sec. of War, please see and hear the Sec. of Interior and Com. of Indian Aff. with Genl. George, Indian Chief and discharge such of the men as the chief applies for & who have not received bounties.

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 21, 1863
Hon. Sec. of War, please see my especial friend, Mr. Judd, now Minister at Berlin, and who wishes his son to go [to] West-Point. I must do this if there [is] any vacancy. Please ascertain, and let him know whether there is a vacancy. A. LINCOLN Nov. 21. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 22, 1863
The within is in behalf of the family of Southern, who killed the Lieutenant and fled. It is represented that the family are substantially imprisoned in their house by our soldiers, & are on starvation. I submit that perhaps some attention better be given to the case. Nov. 22. 1863 A LINCOLN

To E. P. Evans
E. P. Evans Executive Mansion West-Union, Adams Co. Ohio Washington, D.C. Nov. 23. 1863
Yours to Gov. Chase in behalf of John A. Welch is before me. Can there be a worse case than to desert and write letters persu[a]ding others to desert? I can-not interpose without a better showing than you make. When did he desert? When did he write the letters? A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward
Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, D.C. Nov. 23. 1863
Two despatches since I saw you---one not quite so late on firing as we had before, but giving the points that Burnside thinks he can hold the place, that he is not closely invested, and that he forages across the river. The other brings the firing up to 11. A.M. yesterday, being 23. hours later than we had before. Yours truly Hon. Sec. of State A. LINCOLN

To Green C. Smith
Hon. Green Clay Smith Executive Mansion, Covington, Ky. Washington, Nov. 23, 1863.
I am told that John A. Welch is under sentence as a deserter to be shot at Covington on the 11th. of December. Please bring a copy of the record, and other facts of his case, with you when you come. A. LINCOLN

To Seth Eastman
Military Officer in Washington, D.C., command at Cincinnati O. Nov. 24, 1863.
Please suspend execution of sentence against E. A. Smith, until further order, mean time send me copy of record of his trial A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State. Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Washington. Nov. 24. 1863.
A despatch from Foster at Cincinnati received half an hour ago, contains one from Wilcox, at Cumberland Gap without date, saying ``fighting going on at Knoxville today.'' The want of date makes the time of fighting uncertain, but I rather think it means yesterday the 23rd. Yours truly. A. LINCOLN.

Authorization for Peter H. Watson
War Department Washington City, Nov 25 1863
During the temporary absence of the Secretary of War his duties will be performed by Assistant Secretary P H Watson. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Major Genl. Grant Washington, D.C., Chattanooga. Nov. 25 1863
Your despatches as to fighting on Monday & Tuesday are here. Well done. Many thanks to all. Remember Burnside. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade: November 25, 1863.
The sentence in the case of Privt. Moses Giles, Company B, Seventh Maine Volunteers, is suspended until further orders. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
War Department, Major-General Meade Washington, Commanding Army of the Potomac: November 25, 1863.
Suspend execution in case of Adolphus Morse, Seventy-sixth New York, deserter, and send record to me. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade: December 2, 1863.
The sentence in the case of Privt. H. Morris Husband, Ninety-ninth Pennsylvania Volunteers, (now of Third Army Corps First Division) is suspended until further orders. Let the record be forwarded to me. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandumon Construction of Loyal State Governments
[c. December 2, 1863]
It is suggested as proper that in constructing a loyal State government in any State, the name of the State, the boundary, the subdivisions the Constitution and general code of laws, as before the rebellion, be maintained, subject only to the modifications made necessary by the conditions herein before stated, and such others if any, as may be deemed proper in the State, and not contravening said conditions.

To George Opdyke and Others
Messrs. George Opdyke, Jos. Sutherland, Executive Mansion, Benj. F. Manierre, Prosper M. Wetmore Washington, and Spencer Kirby, Committee. Dec. 2, 1863.
Yours of the 28th. ult. inviting me to be present at a meeting to be held at the Cooper Institute, on the 3rd. Inst. to promote the raising of volunteers, is received. Nothing would be more grateful to my feelings, or better accord with my judgment than to contribute, if I could, by my presence, or otherwise, to that eminently patriotic object. Nevertheless the now early meeting of congress, together with a temporary illness, render my attendance impossible. You purpose also to celebrate our Western victories. Freed from apprehension of wounding the just sensibilities of brave soldiers fighting elsewhere, it would be exceedingly agreeable to me to join in a suitable acknowledgment to those of the Great West, with whom I was born, and have passed my life. And it is exceedingly gratifying that a portion lately of the Army of the Potomac, but now serving with the great army of the West, have borne so conspicuous a part in the late brilliant triumphs in Georgia. Honor to the Soldier, and Sailor everywhere, who bravely bears his country's cause. Honor also to the citizen who cares for his brother in the field, and serves, as he best can, the same cause---honor to him, only less than to him, who braves, for the common good, the storms of heaven and the storms of battle. Your Obt. Servt A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major General Meade, Washington, December 3, 1863.
Governor Seymour especially asks that Isaac C. White sentenced to death for desertion be reprieved. I wish this done. (signed) John Hay, A. LINCOLN. a Private Secretary.

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade: Washington, December 3, 1863.
Please suspend execution of Frederick Foster until the record can be examined. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade, [December 3, 1863]
The sentences in the cases of Brice Birdsill, private, Co. B, 124th N.Y. Vols., and Frederick Foster of 99th Penn. Vols. are suspended until further orders. Let the records be forwarded at once. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade: Washington, December 3, 1863.
Please suspend execution in case of William A. Gammon, Seventh Maine, and send record to me. A. LINCOLN. Send by telegraph and oblige, yours very truly, JOHN HAY.

To Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln. Executive Mansion, Metropolitan, N.Y. Washington, Dec. 4. 91/2AM, 1863.
All going well. A LINCOLN

To Stephen C. Massett
Mr. Stephen C. Massett. Washington, Dec. 4, 1863
My Dear Sir: Allow me to thank you very cordially for your kindness in sending me a copy of your book, ``Drifting About.'' I am very truly, Your Obed't Serv't, ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 4, 1863
Hon. B. J. Clay and Hon. G. C. Smith present this petition and join in it. Therefore let Clifton F. Estill, named within, be discharged, on the conditions stated. A. LINCOLN. Dec. 4. 1863

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Executive Mansion, Washington, Metropolitan Hotel. New-[York] Dec. 5. 10 A.M. 1863.
All doing well A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A Lincoln. Executive Mansion Washington, Metropolitan Hotel N.Y. DC. Dec. 6. 1863.
All doing well A LINCOLN

Announcement of Union Success in Tennessee
Executive Mansion Washington D.C. Dec. 7---1863
Reliable information being received that the insurgent force is retreating from East Tennessee, under circumstances rendering it probable that the Union forces can not hereafter be dislodged from that important position; and esteeming this to be of high national consequence, I recommend that all loyal people do, on receipt of this, informally assemble at their places of worship and tender special homage and gratitude to Almighty God, for this great advancement of the national cause. A LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A LINCOLN Executive Mansion, Washington, Metropolitan Hotel, N.Y. Dec. 7. 10/20 AM. 1863.
All doing well. Tad confidently expects you to-night. When will you come? A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Executive Mansion, Washington, Metropolitan Hotel N.Y. Dec. 7. 7 P.M. 1863.
Tad has received his book. The carriage shall be ready at 6 PM. tomorrow. A. LINCOLN

Annual Message to Congress
December 8, 1863
Fellow citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives: Another year of health, and of sufficiently abundant harvests has passed. For these, and especially for the improved condition of our national affairs, our renewed, and profoundest gratitude to God is due. We remain in peace and friendship with foreign powers. The efforts of disloyal citizens of the United States to involve us in foreign wars, to aid an inexcusable insurrection, have been unavailing. Her Britannic Majesty's government, as was justly expected, have exercised their authority to prevent the departure of new hostile expeditions from British ports. The Emperor of France has, by a like proceeding, promptly vindicated the neutrality which he proclaimed at the beginning of the contest. Questions of great intricacy and importance have arisen out of the blockade, and other belligerent operations, between the government and several of the maritime powers, but they have been discussed, and, as far as was possible, accommodated in a spirit of frankness, justice, and mutual good will. It is especially gratifying that our prize courts, by the impartiality of their adjudications, have commanded the respect and confidence of maritime powers. The supplemental treaty between the United States and Great Britain for the suppression of the African slave trade, made on the 17th. day of February last, has been duly ratified, and carried into execution.  It is believed that, so far as American ports and American citizens are concerned, that inhuman and odious traffic has been brought to an end. I shall submit, for the consideration of the Senate, a convention for the adjustment of possessory claims in Washington Territory, arising out of the treaty of the 15th. June, 1846, between the United States and Great Britain, and which have been the source of some disquiet among the citizens of that now rapidly improving part of the country.  A novel and important question, involving the extent of the maritime jurisdiction of Spain in the waters which surround the island of Cuba, has been debated without reaching an agreement, and it is proposed in an amicable spirit to refer it to the arbitrament of a friendly power. A convention for that purpose will be submitted to the Senate.  I have thought it proper, subject to the approval of the Senate, to concur with the interested commercial powers in an arrangement for the liquidation of the Scheldt dues upon the principles which have been heretofore adopted in regard to the imposts upon navigation in the waters of Denmark.  The long pending controversy between this government and that of Chili touching the seizure at Sitana, in Peru, by Chilian officers, of a large amount in treasure belonging to citizens of the United States, has been brought to a close by the award of His Majesty, the King of the Belgians, to whose arbitration the question was referred by the parties.  The subject was thoroughly and patiently examined by that justly respected magistrate, and although the sum awarded to the claimants may not have been as large as they expected, there is no reason to distrust the wisdom of his Majesty's decision. That decision was promptly complied with by Chili, when intelligence in regard to it reached that country. The joint commission, under the act of the last session, for carrying into effect the convention with Peru on the subject of claims, has been organized at Lima, and is engaged in the business intrusted to it.  Difficulties concerning inter-oceanic transit through Nicaragua are in course of amicable adjustment.  In conformity with principles set forth in my last annual message, I have received a representative from the United States of Colombia, and have accredited a minister to that republic.  Incidents occurring in the progress of our civil war have forced upon my attention the uncertain state of international questions, touching the rights of foreigners in this country and of United States citizens abroad.  In regard to some governments these rights are at least partially defined by treaties. In no instance, however, is it expressly stipulated that, in the event of civil war, a foreigner residing in this country, within the lines of the insurgents, is to be exempted from the rule which classes him as a belligerent, in whose behalf the government of his country cannot expect any privileges or immunities distinct from that character. I regret to say, however, that such claims have been put forward, and, in some instances, in behalf of foreigners who have lived in the United States the greater part of their lives. There is reason to believe that many persons born in foreign countries, who have declared their intention to become citizens, or who have been fully naturalized, have evaded the military duty required of them by denying the fact, and thereby throwing upon the government the burden of proof. It has been found difficult or impracticable to obtain this proof from the want of guides to the proper sources of information. These might be supplied by requiring clerks of courts, where declarations of intention may be made or naturalizations effected, to send, periodically, lists of the names of the persons naturalized, or declaring their intention to become citizens, to the Secretary of the Interior, in whose department those names might be arranged and printed for general information. There is also reason to believe that foreigners frequently become citizens of the United States for the sole purpose of evading duties imposed by the laws of their native countries, to which, on becoming naturalized here, they at once repair, and though never returning to the United States, they still claim the interposition of this government as citizens. Many altercations and great prejudices have heretofore arisen out of this abuse. It is therefore, submitted to your serious consideration. It might be advisable to fix a limit, beyond which no Citizen of the United States residing abroad may claim the interposition of his government.  The right of suffrage has often been assumed and exercised by aliens, under pretences of naturalization, which they have disavowed when drafted into the military service. I submit the expediency of such an amendment of the law as will make the fact of voting an estoppel against any plea of exemption from military service, or other civil obligation, on the ground of alienage.  In common with other western powers, our relations with Japan have been brought into serious jeopardy, through the perverse opposition of the hereditary aristocracy of the empire, to the enlightened and liberal policy of the Tycoon designed to bring the country into the society of nations. It is hoped, although not with entire confidence, that these difficulties may be peacefully overcome. I ask your attention to the claim of the Minister residing there for the damages he sustained in the destruction by fire of the residence of the legation at Yedo.  Satisfactory  arrangements have been made with the Emperor of Russia, which, it is believed, will result in effecting a continuous line of telegraph through that empire from our Pacific coast.  I recommend to your favorable consideration the subject of an international telegraph across the Atlantic ocean; and also of a telegraph between this capital and the national forts along the Atlantic seaboard and the Gulf of Mexico.  Such communications, established with any reasonable outlay, would be economical as well as effective aids to the diplomatic, military, and naval service. The consular system of the United States, under the enactments of the last Congress, begins to be self-sustaining;  and there is reason to hope that it may become entirely so, with the increase of trade which will ensue whenever peace is restored. Our ministers abroad have been faithful in defending American rights. In protecting commercial interests, our Consuls have necessarily had to encounter increased labors and responsibilities, growing out of the war. These they have, for the most part, met and discharged with zeal and efficiency. This acknowledgment justly includes those Consuls who, residing in Morocco, Egypt, Turkey, Japan, China, and other oriental countries, are charged with complex functions and extraordinary powers. The condition of the several organized Territories is generally satisfactory, although Indian disturbances in New Mexico have not been entirely suppressed. The mineral resources of Colorado, Nevada, Idaho, New Mexico, and Arizona are proving far richer than has been heretofore understood. I lay before you a communication on this subject from the governor of New Mexico.  I again submit to your consideration the expediency of establishing a system for the encouragement of immigration. Although this source of national wealth and strength is again flowing with greater freedom than for several years before the insurrection occurred, there is still a great deficiency of laborers in every field of industry, especially in agriculture and in our mines, as well of iron and coal as of the precious metals. While the demand for labor is thus increased here, tens of thousands of persons, destitute of remunerative occupation, are thronging our foreign consulates, and offering to emigrate to the United States if essential, but very cheap, assistance can be afforded them. It is easy to see that, under the sharp discipline of civil war, the nation is beginning a new life. This noble effort demands the aid, and ought to receive the attention and support of the government.  Injuries, unforseen by the government and unintended, may, in some cases, have been inflicted on the subjects or citizens of foreign countries, both at sea and on land, by persons in the service of the United States. As this government expects redress from other powers when similar injuries are inflicted by persons in their service upon citizens of the United States, we must be prepared to do justice to foreigners. If the existing judicial tribunals are inadequate to this purpose, a special court may be authorized, with power to hear and decide such claims of the character referred to as may have arisen under treaties and the public law. Conventions for adjusting the claims by joint commission have been proposed to some governments, but no definitive answer to the proposition has yet been received from any. In the course of the session I shall probably have occasion to request you to provide indemnification to claimants where decrees of restitution have been rendered, and damages awarded by admiralty courts; and in other cases where this government may be acknowledged to be liable in principle, and where the amount of that liability has been ascertained by an informal arbitration. The proper officers of the treasury have deemed themselves required, by the law of the United States upon the subject, to demand a tax upon the incomes of foreign consuls in this country. While such a demand may not, in strictness, be in derogation of public law, or perhaps of any existing treaty between the United States and a foreign country, the expediency of so far modifying the act as to exempt from tax the income of such consuls as are not citizens of the United States, derived from the emoluments of their office, or from property not situated in the United States, is submitted to your serious consideration.  I make this suggestion upon the ground that a comity which ought to be reciprocated exempts our Consuls, in all other countries, from taxation to the extent thus indicated. The United States, I think, ought not to be exceptionally illiberal to international trade and commerce. The operations of the treasury during the last year have been successfully conducted. The enactment by Congress of a national banking law  has proved a valuable support of the public credit; and the general legislation in relation to loans has fully answered the expectations of its favorers. Some amendments may be required to perfect existing laws; but no change in their principles or general scope is believed to be needed. Since these measures have been in operation, all demands on the treasury, including the pay of the army and navy, have been promptly met and fully satisfied. No considerable body of troops, it is believed, were ever more amply provided, and more liberally and punctually paid; and it may be added that by no people were the burdens incident to a great war ever more cheerfully borne. The receipts during the year from all sources, including loans and the balance in the treasury at its commencement, were $901,125,674 86, and the aggregate disbursements $895,796,630.65, leaving a balance on the 1st. July, 1863, of $5,329,044.21. Of the receipts there were derived from customs, $69,059,642.40; from internal revenue, $37,640,787.95; from direct tax, $1,485,103.61; from lands, $167,617.17; from miscellaneous sources, $3,046,615.35; and from loans, $776,682,361.57; making the aggregate, $901,125,674.86. Of the disbursements there were for the civil service, $23,253,922.08; for pensions and Indians, $4,216,520.79; for interest on public debt, $24,729,846.51;  for the War Department, $599,298,600.83; for the Navy Department, $63,211,105.27; for payment of funded and temporary debt, $181,086,635.07; making the aggregate, $895,796,630.65, and leaving the balance of $5,329,044.21. But the payment of funded and temporary debt, having been made from moneys borrowed during the year, must be regarded as merely nominal payments, and the moneys borrowed to make them as merely nominal receipts; and the amount, $181,086,635 07, should therefore be deducted both from receipts and disbursements. This being done, there remains as actual receipts $720,039,039.79; and the actual disbursements, $714,709,995.58, leaving the balance as already stated. The actual receipts and disbursements for the first quarter, and the estimated receipts and disbursements for the remaining three quarters, of the current fiscal year, 1864, will be shown in detail by the report of the Secretary of the Treasury, to which I invite your attention. It is sufficient to say here that it is not believed that actual results will exhibit a state of the finances less favorable to the country than the estimates of that officer heretofore submitted; while it is confidently expected that at the close of the year both disbursements and debt will be found very considerably less than has been anticipated. The report of the Secretary of War is a document of great interest. It consists of--- 1. The military operations of the year, detailed in the report of the general-in-chief. 2. The organization of colored persons into the war service. 3. The exchange of prisoners, fully set forth in the letter of General Hitchcock. 4. The operations under the act for enrolling and calling out the national forces, detailed in the report of the provost marshal general. 5. The organization of the invalid corps; and 6. The operation of the several departments of the quartermaster general, commissary general, paymaster general, chief of engineers, chief of ordnance, and surgeon general. It has appeared impossible to make a valuable summary of this report except such as would be too extended for this place, and hence I content myself by asking your careful attention to the report itself.  The duties devolving on the naval branch of the service during the year, and throughout the whole of this unhappy contest, have been discharged with fidelity and eminent success. The extensive blockade has been constantly increasing in efficiency, as the navy has expanded; yet on so long a line it has so far been impossible to entirely suppress illicit trade. From returns received at the Navy Department, it appears that more than one thousand vessels have been captured since the blockade was instituted, and that the value of prizes already sent in for adjudication amounts to over thirteen millions of dollars. The naval force of the United States consists at this time of five hundred and eighty-eight vessels, completed and in the course of completion, and of these seventy-five are iron-clad or armored steamers.  The events of the war give an increased interest and importance to the navy which will probably extend beyond the war itself. The armored vessels in our navy completed and in service, or which are under contract and approaching completion, are believed to exceed in number those of any other power. But while these may be relied upon for harbor defence and coast service, others of greater strength and capacity will be necessary for cruising purposes, and to maintain our rightful position on the ocean. The change that has taken place in naval vessels and naval warfare, since the introduction of steam as a motive-power for ships-of-war, demands either a corresponding change in some of our existing navy yards, or the establishment of new ones, for the construction and necessary repair of modern naval vessels. No inconsiderable embarrassment, delay, and public injury have been experienced from the want of such governmental establishments. The necessity of such a navy yard, so furnished, at some suitable place upon the Atlantic seaboard, has on repeated occasions been brought to the attention of Congress by the Navy Department, and is again presented in the report of the Secretary which accompanies this communication. I think it my duty to invite your special attention to this subject, and also to that of establishing a yard and depot for naval purposes upon one of the western rivers.  A naval force has been created on those interior waters, and under many disadvantages, within little more than two years, exceeding in numbers the whole naval force of the country at the commencement of the present administration. Satisfactory and important as have been the performances of the heroic men of the navy at this interesting period, they are scarcely more wonderful than the success of our mechanics and artisans in the production of war vessels which has created a new form of naval power. Our country has advantages superior to any other nation in our resources of iron and timber, with inexhaustible quantities of fuel in the immediate vicinity of both, and all available and in close proximity to navigable waters. Without the advantage of public works the resources of the nation have been developed and its power displayed in the construction of a navy of such magnitude which has, at the very period of its creation, rendered signal service to the Union. The increase of the number of seamen in the public service, from seven thousand five hundred men, in the spring of 1861, to about thirty four thousand at the present time has been accomplished without special legislation, or extraordinary bounties to promote that increase. It has been found, however, that the operation of the draft, with the high bounties paid for army recruits, is beginning to affect injuriously the naval service, and will, if not corrected, be likely to impair its efficiency, by detaching seamen from their proper vocation and inducing them to enter the Army.  I therefore respectfully suggest that Congress might aid both the army and naval services by a definite provision on this subject, which would at the same time be equitable to the communities more especially interested.  I commend to your consideration the suggestions of the Secretary of the Navy in regard to the policy of fostering and training seamen,  and also the education of officers and engineers for the naval service. The Naval Academy is rendering signal service in preparing midshipmen for the highly responsible duties which in after life they will be required to perform. In order that the country should not be deprived of the proper quota of educated officers, for which legal provision has been made at the naval school, the vacancies caused by the neglect or omission to make nominations from the States in insurrection have been filled by the Secretary of the Navy. The school is now more full and complete than at any former period, and in every respect to the favorable consideration of Congress.  During the past fiscal year the financial condition of the Post office Department has been one of increasing prosperity, and I am gratified in being able to state that the actual postal revenue has nearly equalled the entire expenditures; the latter amounting to $11,314,206.84, and the former to $11,163,789 59, leaving a deficiency of but $150,417 25. In 1860, the year immediately preceding the rebellion the deficiency amounted to $5,656,705 49, the postal receipts of that year being $2,645,722 19 less than those of 1863. The decrease since 1860 in the annual amount of transportation has been only about 25 per cent, but the annual expenditure on account of the same has been reduced 35 per cent. It is manifest, therefore, that the Post Office Department may become self-sustaining in a few years, even with the restoration of the whole service. The international conference of postal delegates from the principal countries of Europe and America, which was called at the suggestion of the Postmaster General, met at Paris on the 11th of May last, and concluded its deliberations on the 8th of June. The principles established by the conference as best adapted to facilitate postal intercourse between nations, and as the basis of future postal conventions, inaugurate a general system of uniform international charges, at reduced rates of postage, and cannot fail to produce beneficial results.  I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Interior, which is herewith laid before you, for useful and varied information in relation to the public lands, Indian affairs, patents, pensions, and other matters of public concern pertaining to his department.  The quantity of land disposed of during the last and the first quarter of the present fiscal years was three million eight hundred and forty one thousand five hundred and forty nine acres, of which one hundred and sixty one thousand nine hundred and eleven acres were sold for cash, one million four hundred and fifty six thousand five hundred and fourteen acres were taken up under the homestead law, and the residue disposed of under laws granting lands for military bounties, for railroad and other purposes. It also appears that the sale of the public lands is largely on the increase. It has long been a cherished opinion of some of our wisest statesmen that the people of the United States had a higher and more enduring interest in the early settlement and substantial cultivation of the public lands than in the amount of direct revenue to be derived from the sale of them. This opinion has had a controlling influence in shaping legislation upon the subject of our national domain. I may cite, as evidence of this, the liberal measures adopted in reference to actual settlers; the grant to the States of the overflowed lands within their limits in order to their being reclaimed and rendered fit for cultivation; the grants to railway companies of alternate sections of land upon the contemplated lines of their roads which, when completed, will so largely multiply the facilities for reaching our distant possessions. This policy has received its most signal and beneficent illustration in the recent enactment granting homesteads to actual settlers. Since the first day of January last the before-mentioned quantity of one million four hundred and fifty-six thousand five hundred and fourteen acres of land have been taken up under its provisions. This fact and the amount of sales furnish gratifying evidence of increasing settlement upon the public lands, notwithstanding the great struggle in which the energies of the nation have been engaged, and which has required so large a withdrawal of our citizens from their accustomed pursuits. I cordially concur in the recommendation of the Secretary of the Interior suggesting a modification of the act in favor of those engaged in the military and naval service of the United States. I doubt not that Congress will cheerfully adopt such measures as will, without essentially changing the general features of the system, secure to the greatest practicable extent, its benefits to those who have left their homes in the defence of the country in this arduous crisis.  I invite your attention to the views of the Secretary as to the propriety of raising by appropriate legislation a revenue from the mineral lands of the United States.  The measures provided at your last session for the removal of certain Indian tribes have been carried into effect. Sundry treaties have been negotiated which will, in due time, be submitted for the constitutional action of the Senate. They contain stipulations for extinguishing the possessory rights of the Indians to large and valuable tracts of land. It is hoped that the effect of these treaties will result in the establishment of permanent friendly relations with such of these tribes as have been brought into frequent and bloody collision with our outlying settlements and emigrants. Sound policy and our imperative duty to these wards of the government demand our anxious and constant attention to their material well-being, to their progress in the arts of civilzation, and, above all, to that moral training which, under the blessing of Divine Providence, will confer upon them the elevated and sanctifying influences, the hopes and consolation of the Christian faith. I suggested in my last annual message the propriety of remodelling our Indian system. Subsequent events have satisfied me of its necessity. The details set forth in the report of the Secretary evince the urgent need for immediate legislative action.  I commend the benevolent institutions, established or patronized by the government in this District, to your generous and fostering care. The attention of Congress, during the last session, was engaged to some extent with a proposition for enlarging the water communication between the Mississippi river and the northeastern seaboard, which proposition, however, failed for the time. Since then, upon a call of the greatest respectability a convention has been held at Chicago upon the same subject, a summary of whose views is contained in a memorial addressed to the President and Congress, and which I now have the honor to lay before you. That this interest is one which, ere long, will force its own way, I do not entertain a doubt, while it is submitted entirely to your wisdom as to what can be done now.  Augmented interest is given to this subject by the actual commencement of work upon the Pacific railroad, under auspices so favorable to rapid progress and completion. The enlarged navigation becomes a palpable need to the great road. I transmit the second annual report of the Commissioner of the Department of Agriculture, asking your attention to the developments in that vital interest of the nation. When  Congress assembled a year ago the war had already lasted nearly twenty months, and there had been many conflicts on both land and sea, with varying results. The rebellion had been pressed back into reduced limits; yet the tone of public feeling and opinion, at home and abroad, was not satisfactory. With other signs, the popular elections, then just past, indicated uneasiness among ourselves, while amid much that was cold and menacing the kindest words coming from Europe were uttered in accents of pity, that we were too blind to surrender a hopeless cause. Our commerce was suffering greatly by a few armed vessels built upon and furnished from foreign shores, and we were threatened with such additions from the same quarter as would sweep our trade from the sea and raise our blockade. We had failed to elicit from European governments anything hopeful upon this subject. The preliminary emancipation proclamation, issued in September, was running its assigned period to the beginning of the new year. A month later the final proclamation came, including the announcement that colored men of suitable condition would be received into the war service. The policy of emancipation, and of employing black soldiers, gave to the future a new aspect, about which hope, and fear, and doubt contended in uncertain conflict. According to our political system, as a matter of civil administration, the general government had no lawful power to effect emancipation in any State, and for a long time it had been hoped that the rebellion could be suppressed without resorting to it as a military measure. It was all the while deemed possible that the necessity for it might come, and that if it should, the crisis of the contest would then be presented. It came, and as was anticipated, it was followed by dark and doubtful days. Eleven months having now passed, we are permitted to take another review. The rebel borders are pressed still further back, and by the complete opening of the Mississippi the country dominated by the rebellion is divided into distinct parts, with no practical communication between them. Tennessee and Arkansas have been substantially cleared of insurgent control, and influential citizens in each, owners of slaves and advocates of slavery at the beginning of the rebellion, now declare openly for emancipation in their respective States. Of those States not included in the emancipation proclamation, Maryland, and Missouri, neither of which three years ago would tolerate any restraint upon the extension of slavery into new territories, only dispute now as to the best mode of removing it within their own limits. Of those who were slaves at the beginning of the rebellion, full one hundred thousand are now in the United States military service, about one-half of which number actually bear arms in the ranks; thus giving the double advantage of taking so much labor from the insurgent cause, and supplying the places which otherwise must be filled with so many white men. So far as tested, it is difficult to say they are not as good soldiers as any. No servile insurrection, or tendency to violence or cruelty, has marked the measures of emancipation and arming the blacks. These measures have been much discussed in foreign countries, and contemporary with such discussion the tone of public sentiment there is much improved.  At home the same measures have been fully discussed, supported, criticised, and denounced, and the annual elections following are highly encouraging to those whose official duty it is to bear the country through this great trial. Thus we have the new reckoning. The crisis which threatened to divide the friends of the Union is past. Looking now to the present and future, and with reference to a resumption of the national authority within the States wherein that authority has been suspended, I have thought fit to issue a proclamation, a copy of which is herewith transmitted.  On examination of this proclamation it will appear, as is believed, that nothing is attempted beyond what is amply justified by the Constitution. True, the form of an oath is given, but no man is coerced to take it. The man is only promised a pardon in case he voluntarily takes the oath. The Constitution authorizes the Executive to grant or withhold the pardon at his own absolute discretion; and this includes the power to grant on terms, as is fully established by judicial and other authorities. It is also proffered that if, in any of the States named, a State government shall be, in the mode prescribed, set up, such government shall be recognized and guarantied by the United States, and that under it the State shall, on the constitutional conditions, be protected against invasion and domestic violence. The constitutional obligation of the United States to guaranty to every State in the Union a republican form of government, and to protect the State, in the cases stated, is explicit and full. But why tender the benefits of this provision only to a State government set up in this particular way? This section of the Constitution contemplates a case wherein the element within a State, favorable to republican government, in the Union, may be too feeble for an opposite and hostile element external to, or even within the State; and such are precisely the cases with which we are now dealing. An attempt to guaranty and protect a revived State government, constructed in whole, or in preponderating part, from the very element against whose hostility and violence it is to be protected, is simply absurd. There must be a test by which to separate the opposing elements, so as to build only from the sound; and that test is a sufficiently liberal one, which accepts as sound whoever will make a sworn recantation of his former unsoundness. But if it be proper to require, as a test of admission to the political body, an oath of allegiance to the Constitution of the United States, and to the Union under it, why also to the laws and proclamations in regard to slavery? Those laws and proclamations were enacted and put forth for the purpose of aiding in the suppression of the rebellion. To give them their fullest effect, there had to be a pledge for their maintenance. In my judgment they have aided, and will further aid, the cause for which they were intended. To now abandon them would be not only to relinquish a lever of power, but would also be a cruel and an astounding breach of faith. I  may add at this point, that while I remain in my present position I shall not attempt to retract or modify the emancipation proclamation; nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of that proclamation, or by any of the acts of Congress. For these and other reasons it is thought best that support of these measures shall be included in the oath; and it is believed the Executive may lawfully claim it in return for pardon and restoration of forfeited rights, which he has clear constitutional power to withhold altogether, or grant upon the terms which he shall deem wisest for the public interest. It should be observed, also, that this part of the oath is subject to the modifying and abrogating power of legislation and supreme judicial decision. The proposed acquiescence of the national Executive in any reasonable temporary State arrangement for the freed people is made with the view of possibly modifying the confusion and destitution which must, at best, attend all classes by a total revolution of labor throughout whole States. It is hoped that the already deeply afflicted people in those States may be somewhat more ready to give up the cause of their affliction, if, to this extent, this vital matter be left to themselves; while no power of the national Executive to prevent an abuse is abridged by the proposition. The  suggestion in the proclamation as to maintaining the political framework of the States on what is called reconstruction, is made in the hope that it may do good without danger of harm. It will save labor and avoid great confusion. But why any proclamation now upon this subject? This question is beset with the conflicting views that the step might be delayed too long or be taken too soon. In some States the elements for resumption seem ready for action, but remain inactive, apparently for want of a rallying point---a plan of action. Why shall A adopt the plan of B, rather than B that of A? And if A and B should agree, how can they know but that the general government here will reject their plan? By the proclamation a plan is presented which may be accepted by them as a rallying point, and which they are assured in advance will not be rejected here. This may bring them to act sooner than they otherwise would. The objections to a premature presentation of a plan by the national Executive consists in the danger of committals on points which could be more safely left to further developments. Care has been taken to so shape the document as to avoid embarrassments from this source. Saying that, on certain terms, certain classes will be pardoned, with rights restored, it is not said that other classes, or other terms, will never be included. Saying that reconstruction will be accepted if presented in a specified way, it is not said it will never be accepted in any other way.  The movements, by State action, for emancipation in several of the States, not included in the emancipation proclamation, are matters of profound gratulation. And while I do not repeat in detail what I have hertofore so earnestly urged upon this subject, my general views and feelings remain unchanged; and I trust that Congress will omit no fair opportunity of aiding these important steps to a great consummation. In the midst of other cares, however important, we must not lose sight of the fact that the war power is still our main reliance. To that power alone can we look, yet for a time, to give confidence to the people in the contested regions, that the insurgent power will not again overrun them. Until that confidence shall be established, little can be done anywhere for what is called reconstruction. Hence our chiefest care must still be directed to the army and navy, who have thus far borne their harder part so nobly and well. And it may be esteemed fortunate that in giving the greatest efficiency to these indispensable arms, we do also honorably recognize the gallant men, from commander to sentinel, who compose them, and to whom, more than to others, the world must stand indebted for the home of freedom disenthralled, regenerated, enlarged, and perpetuated. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, December 8, 1863.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Major General Grant Executive Mansion, Chattanooga, Tenn. Washington, Dec. 8. 1863.
Understanding that your lodgment at Chattanooga and Knoxville is now secure, I wish to tender you, and all under your command, my more than thanks---my profoundest gratitude---for the skill, courage, and perseverance, with which you and they, over so great difficulties, have effected that important object. God bless you all. A. LINCOLN

Proclamation of Amnesty and Reconstruction
December 8, 1863
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, in and by the Constitution of the United States, it is provided that the President ``shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against the United States, except in cases of impeachment;'' and Whereas a rebellion now exists whereby the loyal State governments of several States have for a long time been subverted, and many persons have committed and are now guilty of treason against the United States; and Whereas, with reference to said rebellion and treason, laws have been enacted by Congress declaring forfeitures and confiscation of property and liberation of slaves, all upon terms and conditions therein stated, and also declaring that the President was thereby authorized at any time thereafter, by proclamation, to extend to persons who may have participated in the existing rebellion, in any State or part thereof, pardon and amnesty, with such exceptions and at such times and on such conditions as he may deem expedient for the public welfare; and Whereas the congressional declaration for limited and conditional pardon accords with well-established judicial exposition of the pardoning power; and Whereas, with reference to said rebellion, the President of the United States has issued several proclamations, with provisions in regard to the liberation of slaves; and Whereas it is now desired by some persons heretofore engaged in said rebellion to resume their allegiance to the United States, and to reinaugurate loyal State governments within and for their respective States; therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do proclaim, declare, and make known to all persons who have, directly or by implication, participated in the existing rebellion, except as hereinafter excepted, that a full pardon is hereby granted to them and each of them, with restoration of all rights of property, except as to slaves, and in property cases where rights of third parties shall have intervened, and upon the condition that every such person shall take and subscribe an oath, and thenceforward keep and maintain said oath inviolate; and which oath shall be registered for permanent preservation, and shall be of the tenor and effect following, to wit: ``I, ---, do solemnly swear, in presence of Almighty God, that I will henceforth faithfully support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, and the union of the States thereunder; and that I will, in like manner, abide by and faithfully support all acts of Congress passed during the existing rebellion with reference to slaves, so long and so far as not repealed, modified or held void by Congress, or by decision of the Supreme Court; and that I will, in like manner, abide by and faithfully support all proclamations of the President made during the existing rebellion having reference to slaves, so long and so far as not modified or declared void by decision of the Supreme Court. So help me God.'' The  persons excepted from the benefits of the foregoing provisions are all who are, or shall have been, civil or diplomatic officers or agents of the so-called confederate government; all who have left judicial stations under the United States to aid the rebellion; all who are, or shall have been, military or naval officers of said so-called confederate government above the rank of colonel in the army, or of lieutenant in the navy; all who left seats in the United States Congress to aid the rebellion; all who resigned commissions in the army or navy of the United States, and afterwards aided the rebellion; and all who have engaged in any way in treating colored persons or white persons, in charge of such, otherwise than lawfully as prisoners of war, and which persons may have been found in the United States service, as soldiers, seamen, or in any other capacity. And I do further proclaim, declare, and make known, that whenever, in any of the States of Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, South Carolina, and North Carolina, a number of persons, not less than one-tenth in number of the votes cast in such State at the Presidential election of the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty, each having taken the oath aforesaid and not having since violated it, and being a qualified voter by the election law of the State existing immediately before the so-called act of secession, and excluding all others, shall re-establish a State government which shall be republican, and in no wise contravening said oath, such shall be recognized as the true government of the State, and the State shall receive thereunder the benefits of the constitutional provision which declares that ``The United States shall guaranty to every State in this union a republican form of government, and shall protect each of them against invasion; and, on application of the legislature, or the executive, (when the legislature cannot be convened,) against domestic violence.'' And I do further proclaim, declare, and make known that any provision which may be adopted by such State government in relation to the freed people of such State, which shall recognize and declare their permanent freedom, provide for their education, and which may yet be consistent, as a temporary arrangement, with their present condition as a laboring, landless, and homeless class, will not be objected to by the national Executive. And  it is suggested as not improper, that, in constructing a loyal State government in any State, the name of the State, the boundary, the subdivisions, the constitution, and the general code of laws, as before the rebellion, be maintained, subject only to the modifications made necessary by the conditions hereinbefore stated, and such others, if any, not contravening said conditions, and which may be deemed expedient by those framing the new State government. To avoid misunderstanding, it may be proper to say that this proclamation, so far as it relates to State governments, has no reference to States wherein loyal State governments have all the while been maintained. And for the same reason, it may be proper to further say that whether members sent to Congress from any State shall be admitted to seats, constitutionally rests exclusively with the respective Houses, and not to any extent with the Executive. And still further, that this proclamation is intended to present the people of the States wherein the national authority has been suspended, and loyal State governments have been subverted, a mode in and by which the national authority and loyal State governments may be re-established within said States, or in any of them; and, while the mode presented is the best the Executive can suggest, with his present impressions, it must not be understood that no other possible mode would be acceptable. [L.S.] Given under my hand at the city, of Washington, the 8th. day of December, A.D. one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and of the independence of the United States of America the eighty-eighth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 8, 1863
Congress, on my recommendation, passed a Resolution, approved 7th. February 1863, tendering its thanks to Commander D. D. Porter ``for the bravery and skill displayed in the attack on the Post of Arkansas on the 10th. January 1863,'' and in consideration of those services, together with his efficient labors and vigilance subsequently displayed in thwarting the efforts of the rebels to obstruct the Mississippi and its tributaries, and the important part rendered by the Squadron under his command, which led to the surrender of Vicksburg. I do therefore, in conformity to the 7th. Section, of the Act approved 16th. July 1862, nominate Commander D. D. Porter, to be a Rear Admiral in the Navy, on the Active List, from the 4th. July 1863, to fill an existing vacancy. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, D.C.} 8th. December 1863.}

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 8, 1863
To the Senate and House of Representatives . In conformity to the Law of 16 July, 1862, I most cordially recommend that Captain John Rodgers, U.S. Navy, receive a vote of thanks from Congress for the eminent skill and gallantry exhibited by him in the engagement with the Rebel armed Iron Clad Steamer ``Fingal,'' alias ``Atlanta,'' whilst in command of the U.S. Iron Clad Steamer ``Weehawken,'' which led to her capture on the 17 June, 1863, and also for the zeal, bravery and general good conduct shown by this Officer on many occasions. This recommendation is specially made in order to comply with the requirements of the 9th. Section of the aforesaid Act, which is in the following words, viz:--- ``That any line officer of the navy or marine corps may be advanced one grade, if, upon recommendation of the President by name, he receives the thanks of Congress for highly distinguished conduct in conflict with the enemy, or for extraordinary heroism in the line of his profession.'' ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, D.C., 8 December, 1863.

To Andrew G. Curtin
His Excellency A. G. Curtin Executive Mansion, Governor of Pennsylvania Washington, Dec. 9, 1863.
My dear Sir I have to urge my illness and the preparation of the Message in excuse for not having sooner transmitted you the inclosed from the Secretary of War and Provost Marshal-General in response to yours in relation to recruiting in Pennsylvania. Though not quite as you desire, I hope the grounds taken will be reasonably satisfactory to you. Allow me to exchange congratulations with you on the organization of the H.R. and especially on recent military events in Georgia & Tennessee. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade: [December 9, 1863]
The sentences in the cases of Private John L. Keatly, and James Halter, Company I, Second Delaware Volunteers, are suspended until further orders. Let the records be at once forwarded. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of Ferdinand Brewster
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 9, 1863.
Gen. Cameron wishes Ferdinand Brewster to go to West-Point, and for his sake & that of Mr. Brewster,  I wish to do it. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major-General Butler Washington, Fort-Monroe, Va. Dec. 10. 1863.
Please suspend execution in any and all sentences of death in your Department until further orders. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
South-Western Telegraph Company. Dec 10 1863
By Telegraph from Washington 10 30 am To Hon Andw Johnson I still desire very much to see you can you not come A LINCOLN

To Officer in Command at Covington, Kentucky
Officer in Military Command, Executive Mansion at Covington, Kentucky Washington, D.C. Dec. 10. 1863
Let the execution of John A. Welch, under sentence to be shot for desertion to-morrow, be suspended until further order from here. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
To the Senate of the United States. December 10, 1863
I transmit, herewith, a report dated the 9th instant, with the accompanying papers, received from the Secretary of State, in compliance with the requirements of the sixteenth and eighteenth sections of the Act entitled ``An Act to regulate the diplomatic and consular systems of the United States,'' approved August 18, 1856. Washington. December 10. 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

We will consider this a few days, and prepare instructions. In the mean time, no harm will be done. A. LINCOLN Dec. 10. [11 ?] 1863.

To Salmon P. Chase
December 11, 1863
Hon. Sec. of Treasury please see the bearer Mr. Morrison, of Illinois, who is personally known to me to be a most worthy gentleman. A. LINCOLN Dec. 11, 1863

To Henry H. Lockwood
December 11, 1863
[Brigadier-General Lockwood, Baltimore, Md.:] The sentences in the cases of privates William Irons co. D, & Jesse Lewis, co E. 5th. Maryland vols ordered to be carried into execution to day, is hereby suspended until further orders. Decr. 11th. 1863 A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Washington, December 11, 1863.
Major-General Meade, Army of the Potomac: Lieut. Col. James B. Knox, Tenth Regiment Pennsylvania Reserves, offers his resignation under circumstances inducing me to wish to accept it. But I prefer to know your pleasure upon the subject. Please answer. A. LINCOLN.

To John M. Schofield
``Cypher'' Gen. J. M. Schofield Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Dec. 11. 1863.
Please come to see me at once. A LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major-General Meade: December 12, 1863.
Please suspend execution of sentence in case of William F. Goodwin, Company B, Seventeenth Infantry, and forward the record for my examination. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 12, 1863
Gen. Palmer's resignation was not accepted by me. You remember I promised to write him on the subject, which however I have neglected to do. I do not want him to resign, unless there be some reason not yet known to me. A. LINCOLN. Dec. 12. 1863

To John M. Schofield
Gen. J. M. Schofield Executive Mansion. St. Louis, Mo Washington, D.C. Dec. 13. 1863.
On the 11th. I telegraphed, asking you to come here and see me. Did you receive the despatch? A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, December 14, 1863.
If upon examination of this case you find that the facts are in accordance with the statement of the petition and that Dr. Ratcliffe took the oath of allegiance at the invitation of our military authorities & has since kept it inviolate, let him be pardoned for any treasonable practice previous to such recantation, and freed from the penalties now hanging over him. Your Obt. Servt The Hon The Attorney Gen'l. A. LINCOLN

Agreement Signed by Samuel L. Casey
Washington D.C. Dec. 14. 1863.
In consideration that the President of the United States to-day delivers to me a paper of which the within is a copy, I pledge him my word of honor that whatever I may do thereunder shall be at my own expence, and risk of person and property, with no claim upon him, or upon the government in any contingency whatever; that I will take absolutely nothing into the insurgent lines, which could be of value to them, except the boats, tows, and provisions, as stated; and that I will not take said boats, tows, and provisions, or any of them into said insurgent lines, unless I shall first have the personal pledge of Gen. Kirby Smith,  given directly by him to me, that said boats and tows shall, without condition, safely return to our military lines. S. L. Casey

Order Concerning Samuel L. Casey
Executive Mansion, Washington, December 14, 1863.
All Military and Naval commanders will please give to the Hon. Samuel L. Casey, of Kentucky (with any number of inferior Sternwheel-Steam-Boats not exceeding three taking in tow any number of barges, scows, flats, and the like, not having Steam-power, which they may be able to so take, without money, and without cargoes outgoing, and only with crews to navigate the whole, and necessary provisions for himself and said crews) protection and safe-conduct from Cairo to Red River, and up said river, and it's tributaries, till he shall pass beyond our Military lines, and also give him such protection and safe conduct, on his return to our lines, back to Cairo with any cargoes he may bring; and on his safe return from beyond our lines, with said boats and tows, allow him to repeat once or twice if he shall desire. A. LINCOLN

Amnesty to Emily T. Helm
Executive Mansion, Washington, December 14. 1863.
Mrs. Emily T. Helm, not being excepted from the benefits of the proclamation by the President of the United States issued on the 8th. day of December. 1863, and having on this day taken and subscribed the oath according to said proclamation, she is fully relieved of all penalties and forfeitures, and remitted to all her rights, all according to said proclamation, and not otherwise; and, in regard to said restored rights of person and property, she is to be protected and afforded facilities as a loyal person. ABRAHAM LINCOLN P.S. Mrs. Helm claims to own some cotten at Jackson, Mississippi, and also some in Georgia; and I shall be glad, upon either place being brought within our lines, for her to be afforded the proper facilities to show her ownership, and take her property. A. LINCOLN.

Oath of Emily T. Helm
District of Columbia} Washington County}SS [December 14, 1863]
I, Emily T. Helm, do solemnly swear in presence of Almighty God that I will henceforth faithfully support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, and the union of the States thereunder; and that I will, in like manner, abide by, and faithfully support all acts of Congress passed during the existing rebellion with reference to slaves, so long and so far as not repealed, modified, or held void by Congress, or by decision of the Supreme Court; and that I will, in like manner, abide by, and faithfully support all proclamations of the President, made during the existing rebellion, having reference to slaves so long and so far as not modified, or declared void by the Supreme Court. So help me God.

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Whom it may concern Washington, December 14. 1863.
It is my wish that Mrs. Emily T. Helm, (widow of the late Gen. B. H. Helm, who fell in the Confederate service) now returning to Kentucky, may have protection of person and property, except as to slaves, of which I say nothing. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade: Washington, December 14, 1863.
Please suspend execution in case of William Gibson, Fourth Maine Regiment until further order and send record. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade: Washington, December 14, 1863.
Please suspend execution of Lewis Beers, Fourteenth U.S. Infantry, and of William J. Hazlett, One hundred and nineteenth Pennsylvania Volunteers and send record. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum and EndorsementConcerning James B. Rodgers
December 14, 1863
It is sought in this case that, Lieut. Rodgers, having offered his resignation, because of physical disability, the sentence of reprimand, be revoked. The Recommendation of Gen. Geary is approved. A. LINCOLN Dec. 14. 1863.

Recommendation for John Alexander

I believe Mr. Alexander is a very worthy gentleman, and a very competent one in the line in which he proposes to be engaged Dec. 14. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 14, 1863
Let Henry N. Warfield, named within, be paroled and delivered to the custody,---bailed, so to speak,---to his brother-in-law, Dr. L. W. Brown, who and whose brothers are very near friends of mine in Illinois. A. LINCOLN. December 14, 1863.

To Thomas Cottman
Dr. Thomas Cottman Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, December 15, 1863.
You were so kind as to say this morning that you desire to return to Louisiana, and to be guided by my wishes, to some extent, in the part you may take in bringing that state to resume her rightful relation to the general government. My wishes are in a general way expressed as well as I can express them, in the Proclamation issued on the 8th of the present month, and in that part of the annual message which relates to that proclamation. It there appears that I deem the sustaining of the emancipation proclamation, where it applies, as indispensable; and I add here that I would esteem it fortunate, if the people of Louisiana should themselves place the remainder of the state upon the same footing, and then, if in their discretion it should appear best, make some temporary provision for the whole of the freed people, substantially as suggested in the last proclamation. I have not put forth the plan in that proclamation, as a Procrustean bed, to which exact conformity is to be indispensable; and in Louisiana particularly, I wish that labor already done, which varies from that plan in no important particular, may not be thrown away. The strongest wish I have, not already publicly expressed, is that in Louisiana and elsewhere, all sincere Union men would stoutly eschew cliqueism, and, each yielding something in minor matters, all work together. Nothing is likely to be so baleful in the great work before us, as stepping aside of the main object to consider who will get the offices if a small matter shall go thus, and who else will get them, if it shall go otherwise. It is a time now for real patriots to rise above all this. As to the particulars of what I may think best to be done in any state, I have publicly stated certain points, which I have thought indispensable to the reestablishment and maintenance of the national authority; and I go no further than this because I wish to avoid both the substance and the appearance of dictation.

To William P. Fessenden
December 15, 1863
Mr. Fessenden will see the objection to the pardon applied for, as made at the Attorney General's office. Could not he & the others of the Maine delegation fortyfy me a little stronger? Something from the Judge & jury or District Attorney would be in point. Dec. 15. 1863 A. LINCOLN Atty. Genl. please file. A. LINCOLN April 8. 1864

To Mother Mary Gonyeag
Mother Mary Gonyeag Executive Mansion Sup. Academy of Visitation Washington D.C. Keokuk, Iowa Dec. 15. 1863
The President has no authority as to whether you may raffle for the benevolent object you mention. If there is no objection in the Iowa laws, there is none here. A. LINCOLN.

To Ogden Hoffman
Hon. Ogden Hoffman Executive Mansion U.S. District Judge Washington, D.C. San Francisco, California Dec. 15. 1863.
The oath in the proclamation of Dec. 8th. is intended for those who may voluntarily take it, and not for those who may be constrained to take it, in order to escape actual imprisonment or punishment. It is intended that the latter class shall abide the granting or withholding of the pardoning power in the ordinary way. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December , 1863
I lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty concluded at the city of Washington on the sixth day of April, 1863, between John P. Usher, commissioner on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and headmen of the Comanche, Kiowa, and Apache tribes of Indians, duly authorized thereto. A letter of the Secretary of the Interior of the 12th instant accompanies the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, Washington, December, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December , 1863
I lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty concluded at LeRoy, Kansas, on the twenty-ninth day of August, 1863, between William P. Dole, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and William G. Coffin, superintendent of Indian affairs of the Southern Superintendency, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and headmen of the Great and Little Osage tribe of Indians of the State of Kansas. A communication from the Secretary of the Interior, dated the 12th instant, accompanies the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, Washington, December, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December , 1863
I lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty concluded at the Sac and Fox Agency, in Kansas, on the 2d day of September, 1863, between William P. Dole, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, commissioner on the part of the United States, and the New York Indians, represented by duly authorized members of the bands of said tribe. A letter of the Secretary of the Interior of the 12th instant accompanies the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, Washington, December, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December , 1863
I lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty concluded at the Sac and Fox Agency in Kansas on the 3d day of September, 1863, between William P. Dole, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and William G. Coffin, superintendent of Indian affairs for the Southern Superintendency, on the part of the United States, and the Creek Nation of Indians, represented by its chiefs. A letter from the Secretary of the Interior, dated the 12th instant, accompanied the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, Washington, December, 1863.

To The Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December , 1863
I lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action, thereon, a treaty concluded at the Sac and Fox Agency, in Kansas, on the fourth day of September, 1863, between William P. Dole, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and Henry W. Martin, agent for the Sacs and Foxes, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the united tribes of Sac and Fox Indians of the Mississippi. A letter from the Secretary of the Interior, dated the 12th instant, accompanies the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, Washington, December, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December , 1863
I lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty concluded on the 7th day of October, 1863, at Conejos, Colorado Territory, between John Evans, governor and ex-officio superintendent of Indian affairs of said Territory, Michael Steck, superintendent of Indian affairs for the Territory of New Mexico, Simeon Whitely and Lafayette Head, Indian agents, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and warriors of the Tabequache band of Utah Indians. I also transmit a report of the Secretary of the Interior, of the 12th instant, submitting the treaty; an extract from the last annual report of Governor Evans, of Colorado Territory, relating to its negotiation; and a map upon which is delineated the boundaries of the country ceded by the Indians, and that retained for their own use. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, Washington, December, 1863.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 15, 1863
In answer to the Resolution of the Senate of the 11th. of March last, requesting certain information touching persons in the service of this Government, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, to whom the resolution was referred. Washington, 15th. Decr. 1863. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Louisiana Affairs
December 16, 1863
On very full consideration I do not wish to say more than I have publicly said, and said in the letter delivered to Dr. Cottman yesterday. A. LINCOLN Dec. 16. 1863.

Pardon of Alfred Rubery
[December 16, 1863?]
Whereas one Alfred Rubery was convicted on or about the twelfth day of October 1863, in the Circuit of the United States for the District of California, of engaging in, and giving aid and comfort to the existing rebellion against the Government of this country, and sentenced to ten years' imprisonment, and to pay a fine of ten thousand dollars; And whereas, the said Alfred Rubery is of the immature age of twenty years, and of highly respectable parentage; And whereas, the said Alfred Rubery is a subject of Great Britain, and his pardon is desired by John Bright, of England; Now therefore, be it known that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, these and divers other considerations me thereunto moving, and especially as a public mark of the esteem held by the United States of America for the high character and steady friendship of the said John Bright, do hereby grant a pardon to the said Alfred Rubery, the same to begin and take effect on the twentieth day of January, 1864, on condition that he leave the country within thirty days from and after that date.

Proclamation Concerning Discriminating Duties
December 16, 1863
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, by an act of the Congress of the United States of the 24th. of May, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight, entitled ``An Act in addition to an act entitled `An act concerning discriminating duties of Tonnage and Impost' and to equalize the duties on Prussian vessels and their cargoes,'' it is provided that, upon satisfactory evidence being given to the President of the United States, by the government of any foreign nation, that no discriminating duties of tonnage or impost are imposed or levied in the ports of the said nation, upon vessels wholly belonging to citizens of the United States, or upon the produce, manufactures, or merchandise, imported in the same from the United States, or from any foreign country, the President is thereby authorized to issue his proclamation, declaring that the foreign discriminating duties of tonnage and impost within the United States are, and shall be, suspended and discontinued, so far as respects the vessels of the said foreign nation, and the produce, manufactures or merchandise, imported into the United States in the same from the said foreign nation, or from any other foreign country; the said suspension to take effect from the time of such notification being given to the President of the United States, and to continue so long as the reciprocal exemption of vessels, belonging to citizens of the United States, and their cargoes, as aforesaid, shall be continued, and no longer. And whereas, satisfactory evidence has lately been received by me, through an official communication of Senor Don Luis Molina, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotent ary of the Republic of Nicaragua, under date of the 28th. of November, 1863, that no other or higher duties of tonnage and impost have been imposed or levied since the second day of August, 1838, in the ports of Nicaragua upon vessels wholly belonging to citizens of the United States, and upon the produce, manufactures, or merchandize imported in the same from the United States, and from any foreign country whatever, than are levied on Nicaraguan ships and their cargoes, in the same ports under like circumstances: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, do hereby declare and proclaim, that so much of the several acts imposing discriminating duties of tonnage and impost within the United States are, and shall be, suspended and discontinued, so far as respects the vessels of Nicaragua, and the produce, manufactures, and merchandise, imported into the United States in the same, from the dominions of Nicaragua, and from any other foreign country whatever, the said suspension to take effect from the day above mentioned, and to continue thenceforward, so long as the reciprocal exemption of the vessels of the United States, and the produce, manufactures, and merchandise imported into the dominions of Nicaragua, in the same as aforesaid, shall be continued on the part of the government of Nicaragua. [L.S.] Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, the sixteenth day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-three, and the eighty-eighth of the Independence of the United States. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H SEWARD Secretary of State.

To Worthington G. Snethen
W. G. Snethen Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, December 16. 1863.
The application filed by you in behalf of Samuel K. Boyd, to be a Captain in the regular Army has been received, and referred to the War Department. You may not be aware that the application is directly in the teeth of a rule which we have felt constrained to adopt. Suppose your relative were now a First Lieut. in the regular Army, and the Captaincy directly above him were vacant, he would be entitled to be promoted to that vacancy. But suppose I should say to him ``Stand back sir; I want that place for outsider'' what would you and he think of it? And yet that is precisely the way you you [ sic ] now ask me to treat some other Lieutenant. I suppose you have not thought of this. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

It is said Gen. Buford can not live through this day; and it [is] suggested that he be nominated as a Major General. Dec. 16. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, December 16. 1863.
I am so repeatedly applied to for leave to Mrs. Upshur, (widow of Sec. Upshur  FOOTNOTES}>(2)) her sister, and grand-child to come on the flag-of truce boat from City Point, that I shall be obliged if you will permit it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
December 17, 1863
In addition to the within letter, I have personal knowledge of this case, and have concluded to ask the Attorney General to make out a pardon at once. I believe the sentence was for eight years. [Dec. 17, 1863 A. LINCOLN]

To James H. Hoes
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, December 17, 1863.
I have received from the Sanitary Commission of Chicago, the Watch which you placed at their disposal, and I take the liberty of conveying to you my high appreciation of your humanity and generosity, of which I have unexpectedly become the beneficiary. I am very truly yours A. LINCOLN James H. Hoes Esq

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
`` Cypher '' Major General Hurlbut Executive Mansion Memphis, Tenn. Washington, D.C. Dec. 17. 1863.
I understand you have, under sentence of death, a tall old man, by the name of Henry F. Luckett. I personally knew him, and did not think him a bad man. Please do not let him be executed, unless upon further order from me, and, in the mean time, send me a transcript of the record. A. LINCOLN ``Henry F Luckett''

Memorandum: Removal of James L. Ridgely
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 17, 1863.
To-day Hon. Mr. Webster, M.C. with Messrs Hoffman, Lester, Poteat, Lusby, representing that Gen. Pierce, Mr. Wright, and Mr. Given, Senator, agree with them, call, and ask that James L. Ridgely, be restored as Collector of Internal Revenue, in the 2nd. District. They say the grounds of his removal were misrepresentations, and that Mr. Stuart, sought nominations in several conventions, & failing bolted the nominations made this year. The States Attorney for Baltimore Co. also concurs, & in fact, they say the entire county organization concurs. These members are all for emancipation.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 17, 1863
I transmit to the Senate, for consideration with a view to its ratification, a Convention between the United States and Her Britannic Majesty, for the final adjustment of the claims of the Hudson's Bay and Puget Sound Agricultural Companies, signed in this City, on the first day of July, last. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 17th. December, 1863.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 17, 1863
To the Senate, and House of Representatives Herewith I lay before you a letter addressed to myself by a Committee of gentlemen representing the Freedman's Aid Societies in Boston, New-York, Philadelphia and Cincinnati. The subject of the letter, as indicated above, is one of great magnitude, and importance, and one which these gentlemen, of known ability and high character, seem to have considered with great attention and care. Not having the time to form a mature judgment of my own, as to whether the plan they suggest is the best, I submit the whole subject to Congress deeming that their attention thereto is almost imperatively demanded. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Dec. 17. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton and James B. Fry
December 17, 1863
Will the Secretary of War, and Provost Marshal General please consider this application, and make good all that has been promised, as applicable to it, and even beyond promises, etc. equity, so far as practically connected with the public service. Dec. 17, 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To Thurlow Weed
Hon. T. Weed. Executive Mansion, Dec 17, 1863.
Dear Sir: Allow me to introduce my friends, Joshua F. Speed and Joshua Tevis of Kentucky. You may rely implicitly on whatever they may tell you; and I think their mission an important one. Yours very truly. A. LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates

Will the Attorney General, please make out and send me a pardon in this case. A. LINCOLN Dec. 18. 1863.

Memorandum:Appointment of William M. Albin
[c. December 18, 1863]
Gen. Loan recommends William M Albin to be Superintendent of Indian Affairs located at St. Joseph, Mo.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Dec. 18. 1863.
I believe Gen. Schofield must be relieved from command of the Department of Missouri, otherwise a question of veracity, in relation to his declarations as to his interfering, or not, with the Missouri Legislature, will be made with him, which will create an additional amount of trouble, not to be overcome by even a correct decision of the question. The question itself must be avoided. Now for the mode. Senator Henderson, his friend, thinks he can be induced to ask to be relieved, if he shall understand he will be generously treated; and, on this latter point, Gratz Brown will help his nomination, as a Major General, through the Senate. In no other way can he be confirmed; and upon his rejection alone, it would be difficult for me to sustain him as Commander of the Department. Besides, his being relieved from command of the Department, and at the same time confirmed as a Major General, will be the means of Henderson and Brown leading off together as friends, and will go far to heal the Missouri difficulty. Another point. I find it is scarcely less than indispensable for me to do something for Gen. Rosecrans; and I find Henderson and Brown will agree to him for the commander of their Department. Again, I have received such evidence and explanations, in regard to the supposed cotten transactions of Gen. Curtis, as fully restores in my mind the fair presumption of his innocence; and, as he is my friend, and, what is more, as I think, the countries friend, I would be glad to relieve him from the impression that I think him dishonest, by giving him a command. Most of the Iowa and Kansas delegations, a large part of that of Missouri, and the delegates from Nebraska, and Colorado, ask this in behalf of Gen. C. and suggest Kansas and other contiguous territory West of Missouri, as a Department for him. In a purely military point of view it may be that none of these things is indispensable, or perhaps, advantageous; but in another aspect, scarcely less important, they would give great relief, while, at the worst, I think they could not injure the military service much. I therefore shall be greatly obliged if yourself and Gen. Halleck can give me your hearty co-operation, in making the arrangement. Perhaps the first thing would be to send Gen. Schofield's nomination to me. Let me hear from you before you take any actual step in the matter. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Elihu B. Washburne
Hon. E. B. Washburne Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Dec. 18. 1863.
The Joint Resolution of thanks to Gen. Grant & those under his command, has been before me, and is approved. If agreeable to you, I shall be glad for you to superintend the getting up of the Medal, and the making of the copy to be be [ sic ] engrossed on parchment, which I am to transmit to the General. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Let a pardon be made out for the unexecuted part of the sentence in this case. A. LINCOLN Dec. 19. 1863.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General, please make out a pardon for Mr. Burnam, in this case. A. LINCOLN Dec. 19. 1863.

To Ulysses S. Grant
``Cypher'' Major General Grant Executive Mansion Chattanooga, Tenn. Washington, D.C. Dec. 19. 1863.
The Indiana delegation in Congress, or at least a large part of them, are very anxious that Majr. Gen. Milroy shall enter active service again, and I share in this feeling. He is not a difficult man to satisfy, sincerity and courage being his strong traits. Believing in our cause, and wanting to fight in it, is the whole matter with him. Could you, without embarrassment, assign him a place, if directed to report to you. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Sec. of War, please allow Charles Alexander, named within, to go home with his relatives. A. LINCOLN Dec. 19. 1863.

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Secretary of the Navy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Dec. 20. 1863.
Gen. Gilmore, believing that a joint movement of the Army and Navy is not likely to be made against Charleston very soon, has written asking leave to operate independently of the Navy for a time. As this application comes to me, I will thank you to inform me how long, according to any plan or reasonable calculation of the Navy, it will be before it will need the actual co-operation of the Army before Charleston. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Henry C. Wright
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec 20th, 1863.
``I shall not attempt to retract or modify the emancipation proclamation; nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of that proclamation, or by any of the acts of Congress.'' Henry C. Wright ABRAHAM LINCOLN Care of Wendell Philips 221. Washington St. Boston- Mass.

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Dec. 21, 1863.
Please send me a nomination for Henry Hammond, as Marshal of Connecticut. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major Gen. Butler Executive Mansion Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington D.C. Dec. 21. 1863.
It is said that William H. Blake is under sentence of death at Fort-Magruder, in your Department. Do not let him be executed without further order from me, & in the mean time have the record sent me. He is said to belong to the 1st. or 2nd. Pennsylvania Artillery. A. LINCOLN

To Lafayette S. Foster and James Dixon
Hon. Senators Executive Mansion, Foster & Dixon. Washington, Dec. 21, 1863.
The Marshalship of Connecticut has given me some trouble. Of the Sec. of the Navy, Gov. of the State, two Senators, and three Representatives in Congress, who have made recommendations, two are for Mr. Nichols, two for Mr. Hammond, two for Mr. Barnum, and one for Mr. Phelps.  Nothing has been said to me against the integrity or capacity of any of these candidates. So far as stated, three of them are equally well presented. Something more than a year ago Mr. Hammond was so well presented to me for one of the Internal Revenue offices, that it was with great regret I felt constrained to decline giving it to him; and I then wrote one of his friends substantially that I would be glad of a future opportunity to recognize him. I think I should now do this when he stands at least the equal of any competitor, on other grounds. Accordingly I send up his nomination. Please show, or state this to the other gentlemen. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN Since writing the above I have seen letters from six different, and as I understand, respectable and influential citizens of Connecticut, protesting against the appointment of Mr. Hammond. Also a very respectable recommendation of Mr. Barnum, by citizens. Also a letter of Mr. Barnum himself, saying ``If Mr. Hammond of this State receives the Appt. I am fully satisfied, but I am not willing to withdraw in favor of any other person'' Also a letter of Gov. Buckingham, adhering to his recommendation of Mr. Nichols, but speaking in very high terms of Mr. Hammond. These things, taken together, do not change my purpose. A. LINCOLN.

To Francis H. Peirpoint
Governor Pierpoint Executive Mansion Alexandria, Va. Washington, D.C. Dec. 21. 1863
Please come up and see me to-day. A. LINCOLN

Permit to Mr. and Mrs. Charles Craig
Executive Mansion, December 21, 1863.
Mr. and Mrs. Craig, of Arkansas, whose plantation, situated upon the Mississippi River a few miles below Helena, has been desolated during the present war, propose returning to reoccupy and cultivate said plantation; and it is my wish that they be permitted to do so, and that the United States military forces in that vicinity will not molest them or allow them to be molested, as long as the said Mr. and Mrs. Craig shall demean themselves as peaceful, loyal citizens of the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War, please hear Mr. Browning, and grant his request about the Lady going to her husband, if you consistently can. Dec. 21. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Private Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, December 21, 1863.
Sending a note to the Secretary of the Navy as I promised, he called over and said that the strikes in the Ship-yards had thrown the completion of vessels back so much, that he thought Gen. Gilmores proposition entirely proper. He only wishes (and in which I concur) that Gen. Gilmore will courteously confer with and explain to Admiral Dahlgren. In regard to the Western matter, I believe the programme will have to stand substantially as I first put it. Henderson and especially Brown believe that the social influences of St. Louis would inevitably tell injuriously upon Gen. Pope, in the particular difficulty existing there; and I think there is some force in that view. As to retaining Gen. S. temporarily, if this should be done, I believe I should scarcely be able to get his nomination through the Senate. Send me over his nomination, which however I am not yet quite ready to send to the Senate. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Oliver D. Filley
O. D. Filley Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Dec. 22. 1863.
I have just looked over a petition signed by some three dozen citizens of St. Louis, and three accompanying letters, one by yourself, one by a Mr. Nathan Ranney, and one by a Mr. John D. Coalter, the whole relating to the Rev. Dr. McPheeters. The petition prays, in the name of justice and mercy that I will restore Dr. McPheeters to all his ecclesiastical rights. This gives no intimation as to what ecclesiastical rights are withheld. Your letter states that Provost Marshal Dick, about a year ago, ordered the arrest of Dr. McPheters, Pastor of the Vine Street Church, prohibited him from officiating, and placed the management of the affairs of the church out of the control of it's chosen Trustees; and near the close you state that a certain course ``would insure his release.'' Mr. Ranney's letter says ``Dr. Saml. S. McPheeters is enjoying all the rights of a civilian, but can not preach the gospel!!!'' Mr. Coalter, in his letter, asks ``Is it not a strange illustration of the condition of things that the question of who shall be allowed to preach in a church in St. Louis, shall be decided by the President of the United States? '' Now, all this sounds very strangely; and withal, a little as if you gentlemen making the application, do not understand the case alike, one affirming that the Dr. is enjoying all the rights of a civilian, and another pointing out to me what will secure his release ! On the 2nd. day of January last I wrote Gen. Curtis in relation to Mr. Dick's order upon Dr. McPheeters, and, as I suppose the Dr. is enjoying all the rights of a civilian, I only quote that part of my letter which relates to the church. It is as follows: ``But I must add that the U.S. government must not, as by this order, undertake to run the churches. When an individual, in a church or out of it, becomes dangerous to the public interest, he must be checked; but the churches, as such must take care of themselves. It will not do for the U.S. to appoint Trustees, Supervisors, or other agents for the churches.'' This letter going to Gen. Curtis, then in command there I supposed of course it was obeyed, especially as I heard no further complaint from Dr. M. or his friends for nearly an entire year. I have never interfered, nor thought of interfering as to who shall or shall not preach in any church; nor have I knowingly, or believingly, tolerated any one else to so interfere by my authority. If any one is so interfering, by color of my authority, I would like to have it specifically made known to me. If, after all, what is now sought, is to have me put Dr. M. back, over the heads of a majority of his own congregation, that too, will be declined. I will not have control of any church on any side. Yours Respectfully A. LINCOLN

Endorsement on PetitionConcerning Samuel B. McPheeters
December 22, 1863
The assumptions of this paper, so far as I know, or believe are entirely false. I have never deprived Dr. McPheters of any ecclesiastical right, or authorized, or excused its' being done by any one deriving authority from me. On the contrary, in regard to this very case, I directed, a long time ago, that Dr. McPheters was to be arrested, or remain at large, upon the same rule as any one else; and that, in no event, was any one to interfere by my authority, as to who should, or should not preach in any church. This was done, I think, in a letter, in the nature of an order, to Mr. Dick. The assumption that I am keeping Dr. M. from preaching in his church is monstrous. If any one is doing this, by pretense of my authority, I will thank any one who can, to make out and present me, a specific case against him. If, after all, the Dr. is kept out by the majority of his own parishioners, and my official power is sought to force him in over their heads, I decline that also. Dec. 22. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Gilman Marston
Military Commander at Executive Mansion, Point-Lookout, Md. Washington, Dec. 22, 1863.
If you have a prisoner by the name Linder---Daniel Linder, I think, and certainly the son of U. F. Linder, of Illinois, please send him to me by an officer. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. December 22, 1863
I transmit to the Senate, for its consideration with a view to ratification, two Conventions between the United States and His Belgian Majesty, signed at Brussels on the 20th of May and the 20th of July last, respectively, and both relating to the extinguishment of the Scheldt Dues, &c. A copy of so much of the correspondence between the Secretary of State and Mr. Sanford, the Minister Resident of the United States at Brussels, on the subject of the Conventions as is necessary to a full understanding of it, is also herewith transmitted. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, December 22nd, 1863.

To Gideon Welles
[December 22, 1863]
I fear that the publication of a part of the intercepted correspondence just now may do harm, and I have to request you that, so far as in your power, you will suppress any further publication of any part of it, either here, at New York or elsewhere, for a few days. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
December 23, 1863
To the Senate and House of Representatives. I transmit to Congress a copy of the Report to the Secretary of State of the Commissioners on the part of the United States under the Convention with Peru of the 12th. of January last, on the subject of claims. It will be noticed that two claims of Peruvian citizens on this Government have been allowed. An appropriation for the discharge of the obligations of the United States in these cases is requested. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 23d. December, 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion My dear Sir:--- Washington Dec. 23, 1863
Please see this Lady who is a Sister to our gallant and brave friend, Gen. Reynolds, who fell at Gettysburg. Please oblige her if you can. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, Dec. 23, 1863.
Please see Gen. Schenck, and if you can, appoint for him, the Additional Pay-Master he will ask. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Hon. Sec. of War Washington, Dec. 23, 1863.
Let James C. Gates, a prisoner of War at Fort-Delaware, take the oath of allegiance & be discharged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Whom it may concern Washington, Dec. 23, 1863.
The bearer, William Henry Craft, a corporal in Co. C. in the 82nd. N.Y. Volunteers, comes to me voluntarily, under apprehension that he may be arrested, convicted, and punished as a deserter; and I hereby direct him to report forthwith to his regiment for duty, and, upon condition that he does this, and faithfully serves out his term, or until he shall be honorably discharged for any cause, he is fully pardoned for any supposed desertion heretofore committed. A. LINCOLN.

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Major General Banks Washington, December 24. 1863.
Yours of the 6th. Inst. has been received, and fully considered. I deeply regret to have said or done anything which could give you pain, or uneasiness. I have all the while intended you to be master , as well in regard to re-organizing a State government for Louisiana, as in regard to the military matters of the Department; and hence my letters on reconstruction have nearly if not quite all been addressed to you. My error has been that it did not occur to me that Gov. Shepley or any one else would set up a claim to act independently of you; and hence I said nothing expressly upon the point. Language has not been guarded at a point where no danger was thought of. I now tell you that in every dispute, with whomsoever, you are master. Gov. Shepley was appointed to assist the Commander of the Department, and not to thwart him, or act independently of him. Instructions have been given directly to him, merely to spare you detail labor, and not to supersede your authority. This, in it's liability to be misconstrued, it now seems was an error in us. But it is past. I now distinctly tell you that you are master of all, and that I wish you to take the case as you find it, and give us a free-state re-organization of Louisiana, in the shortest possible time. What I say here is to have a reasonable construction. I do not mean that you are to withdraw from Texas, or abandon any other military measure which you may deem important. Nor do I mean that you are to throw away available work already done for re-construction; or that war is to be made upon Gov. Shepley, or upon any one else, unless it be found that they will not co-operate with you, in which case, and in all cases, you are master while you remain in command of the Department. My thanks for your successful and valuable operations in Texas. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out a pardon in the within case. Dec. 24. 1863 A. LINCOLN

Endorsement
December 24, 1863
Comrs. to appraise Negroes in Missouri. These recommendations were very urgently pressed by those M.C's whose names appear. I have given no attention to the subject; & did not even know of the order No. 135. A. LINCOLN Dec. 24. 1863.

To Gilman Marston
Military Commander, at Executive Mansion Point Lookout, Md. Washington D.C. Dec. 24. 1863
If you send Linder to me as directed a day or two ago, also send Edwin C. Claybrook, of 9th. Virginia, rebel cavalry. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 24, 1863
If there is a vacancy of Lieutenant in the 5th Artillery, oblige Judge Clifford by appointing Samuel Gilman, Jr. now a private in that Regiment, to that vacancy unless you know some substantial reason to the contrary. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Sec. of War please re-consider this case, and oblige Mr. Rice and the Vice-President, if he consistently can? A. LINCOLN Dec. 24. 1863

To John D. Stiles
December 24, 1863
Will Hon. Mr. Stiles please inform me, of what crime Becker was convicted---in what court---when---how long he has served under the sentence---and whether he has behaved well? A. LINCOLN Dec. 24. 1863

To Bayard Taylor
Hon. Bayard Taylor: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Dec. 25. 1863.
I think a good lecture or two on ``Serfs, Serfdom, and Emancipation in Russia'' would be both interesting and valuable. Could not you get up such a thing? Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major General Burnside Executive Mansion, Providence, R.I. Washington, Dec. 26, 1863.
Yours in relation to Privates Eaton & Burrows, of the 6th. N.H. is received. When you reach here about New-Year, call on me, and we will fix it up---or I will do it sooner if you say so. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Let the Surgeon General be put upon trial by a court, as suggested by the Judge Advocate General. A. LINCOLN Dec. 26. 1863.

To Usher F. Linder
Hon. U.F. Linder Executive Mansion Chicago, Ills. Washington DC. Dec. 26. 1863
Your son Dan. has just left me, with my order to the Sec. of War, to administer to him the oath of allegiance, discharge him & send him to you. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Army of the Potomac Washington, Dec. 26, 1863.
If Christopher Delker of the 61st. Penn. Vols. is under sentence of death, do not execute him till further order. Whenever it shall be quite convenient I shall be glad to have a conference with you about this class of cases. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Benjamin F. Hoffman
[December 26, 1863]
Gov. Tod asks a Judgeship for Benj. F. Hoffman.

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 26, 1863
Daniel W. Linder, the Daniel Linder named within, is the son of my friend U.F. Linder, at Chicago, Ills. Please administer the oath of allegiance to him, discharge him, and send him to his father. Dec. 26, 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Dec. 26. 1863.
Shall we go down the river to-morrow? And if so, at what hour shall we leave the wharf? and which wharf? Mrs. L. & Tad, perhaps would go. I am not at all urgent about it, & would not have you incur the least inconvenience for it. I merely mean now that if we go, the details better be fixed. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion Major Gen. Banks Washington, Dec. 29. 1863.
Yours of the 16th. is received; and I send you, as covering the ground of it, a copy of my answer to yours of the 6th. it being possible the original may not reach you. I intend you to be master in every controversy made with you. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ambrose E. Burnside
Major Gen. Burnside Executive Mansion Providence, R.I. Washington D.C. Dec. 29, 1863
You may telegraph Eaton and Burrows that these cases will be disposed of according to your request when you come to Washington. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Majr. Gen. Meade. Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac Washington, Dec. 29, 1863
I am appealed to in behalf of Joseph Richardson of 49th. Penn. and Moses Chadbourne (in some New-Hampshire regt.) said to be under sentence for desertion. As in other cases do not let them be executed till further order. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Joseph J. Stewart
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 29, 1863.
To-day Mr. Sterling, State Senator for Baltimore City, and Mr. Silverwood, Rep. of same city, Mr. Newnes Deputy States Atty for same city, and Judge King of Common Pleas of same city, call & protest against the removal of Joseph J. Stuart, as Collector of 2nd. District. The District includes seven wards of the city, & Mr. Silverwood resides in the Districts, but the others do not

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 29, 1863
Senator Browning, personally knows, and vouches for the writer of this letter. Let William T. Dazey, named within, take the oath prescribed in the proclamation of Dec. 8th. and be bailed to his brother the writer of this letter. A. LINCOLN Dec. 29. 1863

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the within request can be lawfully granted, let it be done. Dec. 29. 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General, December 30, 1863
Herewith I send you Edwin C. Claybrook, as you requested. I now place him at your control. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN Dec. 30, 1863.

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. Boyle Executive Mansion, Louisville, Ky. Washington, Dec. 30, 1863.
It is said that Corporal Robert L. Crowell, of Co. E. 20 Ky, Vol. Infy. is under sentence to be shot on the 8th. of January, at Louisville. Do not let the sentence be executed until further order from me. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, D.C. Dec. 30. 1863
Jacob Bowers is fully pardoned for past offence, upon condition that he returns to duty, and re-enlists for three years or during the war. A. LINCOLN

Additional Instructions to Direct Tax Commissioners
December 31, 1863
Additional instructions to the Direct tax Commissioners for the District of South Carolina in relation to the disposition of lands: 1. You will allow any loyal person of twenty one years of age, or upwards, who has at any time since the occupation by the national forces resided for six months, or now resides upon, or is engaged in cultivating any lands in your district owned by the United States to enter the same for preemption to the extent of one, or at the option of the preemptor, two tracts of twenty acres each, paying therefor one dollar and twenty five cents per acre. You will give preference in all cases to heads of families, and married women whose husbands are engaged in the service of the United States, or are necessarily absent. 2. You will permit each soldier, sailor or marine actually engaged in the service of the United States, or any who may have been, or hereafter shall be honorably discharged to preempt and purchase in person, or by authorized agents, at the rate of one dollar, twenty five cents per acre, one tract of twenty acres of land, if single and, if married, two tracts of twenty acres each, in addition to the amount, a head of family, or married woman in the absence of her husband, is allowed to preempt and purchase under the general privilege to loyal persons. 3. Each preemptor on filling his claim and receiving a certificate of preemption must pay in United States notes, two fifths of the price, and the residue on receiving a deed for the parcels of land preempted, and a failure to make complete payment on receipt of the Deed will forfeit all rights under the preemption, as well as all partial payments for the land. 4. When persons authorized to purchase by preemption desire to enter upon, and cultivate lands not yet surveyed, they may do so, but they will be required to conform in their selection, as nearly as possible, to the probable lines of the surveys, and to take and occupy them subject to correction of title and occupation by actual surveys when made. 5. In making surveys, such reservations for paths and roadways will be made as will allow easy and convenient access to the several subdivisions entered for sale and occupancy by preemption or otherwise. Approved December 31. 1863. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade

Will Gen. Meade please suspend execution, in this, case, as in others. A. LINCOLN Dec. 31. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Secretary of War please have early attention given to this subject? A. LINCOLN Dec. 31. 1863.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Dec. 31, 1863.
John Tipton, an acquaintance of mine, in the country of my residence, represents that he has lost one brother, and had another crippled for life, in our service, and that he has a nephew--- M. P. Davis ,---who was conscripted in the rebel service and is now our prisoner at Camp Douglas. He asks that the nephew, may be discharged on taking the oath. Let it be done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec of War. Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Dec 31st. 1863
Please fix up the Dept. to which Curtis is to go without waiting to wind up the Missouri matter. Lane is very anxious to have Fort Smith in it, and I am willing unless there be decided Military reasons the contrary, in which case of course I am not for it. It will oblige me to have the Curtis Department fixed at once. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
1864
The Hon. Secretary of War: Please see and hear Mrs Kennedy and oblige her if you can find a place for her son. 1864.

To Thomas T. Eckert
[c. January, 1864]
Private Please send the above. A. LINCOLN.

To James S. Wadsworth
[January, 1864?]
You desire to know, in the event of our complete success in the field, the same being followed by a loyal and cheerful submission on the part of the South, if universal amnesty should not be accompanied with universal suffrage. Now, since you know my private inclinations as to what terms should be granted to the South in the contingency mentioned, I will here add, that if our success should thus be realized, followed by such desired results, I cannot see, if universal amnesty is granted, how, under the circumstances, I can avoid exacting in return universal suffrage, or, at least, suffrage on the basis of intelligence and military service. How to better the condition of the colored race has long been a study which has attracted my serious and careful attention; hence I think I am clear and decided as to what course I shall pursue in the premises, regarding it a religious duty, as the nation's guardian of these people, who have so heroically vindicated their manhood on the battle-field, where, in assisting to save the life of the Republic, they have demonstrated in blood their right to the ballot, which is but the humane protection of the flag they have so fearlessly defended. The restoration of the Rebel States to the Union must rest upon the principle of civil and political equality of the both races; and it must be sealed by general amnesty  .

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let this appointment be made, if the service can be made useful. Jan. 1, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Jeremiah C. Sullivan
Gen. Sullivan Washington, D.C., Harper's Ferry. Jan. 1. 3/30 PM 1864.
Have you anything new from Winchester, Martinsburg, or thereabouts? A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Executive Mansion, Major Gen. Butler Washington, Jan. 2, 1864.
The Secretary of War and myself have concluded to discharge, of the prisoners at Point Lookout, the following classes. 1. Those who will take the oath prescribed in the proclamation of Dec. 8., and, by the consent of Gen. Marston will enlist in our service. 2. Those who will take the oath, and be discharged, and whose homes lie safely within our military lines. I send by Mr. Hay, this letter, and a blank Book & some other blanks, the way of using which, I propose for him to explain verbally, better than I can in writing. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine and report on this case. Jan. 2. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Francis H. Peirpoint
Gov. Pierpoint. Executive Mansion Alexandria, Va. Washington D.C. Jan. 2. 1864.
Please call and see me to-day, if not too inconvenient. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 2, 1864.
The writer of this is a good man, and P.M. at Chicago. Webster, from whom he quotes, is also a good man, and the locus in quo , as you know, is under Gen. Hurlbut. I submit this case to the Sec. of War. A. LINCOLN Jan. 2. 1864.

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
Major-General Hurlbut, Executive Mansion, Memphis, Tenn.: Washington, January 3, 1864.
Suspend execution of sentence of Privt. Peter Fingle of Fourteenth Iowa Volunteers, and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade: Washington, January 3, 1864.
Suspend the execution of Prvt. Joseph Richardson, Forty-ninth Pennsylvania Volunteers, who is sentenced to be shot to-morrow, and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General, please make out a pardon in this case. Jan. 4. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out a pardon in the case which Hon. Mr. Grider will request. A. LINCOLN Jan. 4. 1864.

Recommendation

I personally know nothing of this Lady; and yet I shall be very glad if she can get some suitable employment. A. LINCOLN Jan. 4. 1864.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please examine & report upon this case. Jan. 5, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Henry T. Blow
Executive Mansion Washington, My Dear Mr Blow 5 January, 1864.
I have received the photograph of Mr. Schaerpp's picture which you have had the kindness to deliver, and I beg that you will express to the artist my thanks for his courtesy I am yours very truly Hon. H.T. Blow. A. LINCOLN.

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
General Boyle Executive Mansion Camp-Nelson, Ky Washington D.C. Jan. 5. 1864.
Execution in the cases of Burrows and Eaton, is suspended, as stated by Gen. Burnside. Let this be taken as an order to that effect. I do not remember receiving any appeal in behalf of Goddard, Crowell, Puckett, or Smith, and yet I may have sent a despatch in regard to some of them A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A Lincoln---Continental Hotel. Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, Pa. Jany. 5. 1864.
All very well. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major General Meade Washington, Jan. 5, 1864.
If not inconsistent with the service, please allow Gen. William Harrow as long a leave of absence as the rules permit, with the understanding that I may lengthen it, if I see fit. He is an acquaintance and friend of mine, & his family matters, very urgently require his presence. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
Gentlemen of the Senate, and January 5, 1864.
House of Representatives. By a Joint Resolution of your Honorable bodies, approved December 23. 1863. the paying of bounties to veteran volunteers, as now practiced by the War Department, is, to the extent of three hundred dollars in each case, prohibited after this fifth day of the present month. I transmit, for your consideration, a communication from the Secretary of War, accompanied by one from the Provost-Marshal-General to him, both relating to the subject above mentioned. I earnestly recommend that the law be so modified as to allow bounties to be paid as they now are, at least until the ensuing first day of February. I am not without anxiety lest I appear to be importunate, in thus re-calling your attention to a subject upon which you have so recently acted; and nothing but a deep conviction that the public interest demands it, could induce me to incur the hazard of being misunderstood on this point. The executive approval was given by me to the Resolution mentioned; and it is now, by a closer attention, and a fuller knowledge of facts, that I feel constrained to recommend a re-consideration of the subject. January 5. 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton and Henry W. Halleck
January 5, 1864.
I ask the respectful attention and consideration of the Secretary of War and General-in-Chief. A. LINCOLN.

To Frederick Steele
Executive Mansion, Major General Steele Washington, January 5, 1864.
I wish to afford the people of Arkansas an opportunity of taking the oath prescribed in the proclamation of Dec. 8, 1863, preparatory to re-organizing a State-government there. Accordingly I send you, by Gen. Kimball, some blank-books and other blanks, the manner of using which will in the main, be suggested by an inspection of them; and Gen. Kimball will add some verbal explanations. Please make a trial of the matter immediately at such points as you may think likely to give success. I suppose Helena and Little Rock are two of them. Detail any officer you may see fit to take charge of the subject at each point; and which officer, it may be assumed, will have authority to administer the oath. These books of course, are intended to be permanent records. Report to me on the subject. Yours very truly, A. LINCOLN

To Jeremiah T. Boyle
Gen. Boyle. Executive Mansion Camp Nelson, Ky. Washington D.C. Jan. 6. 1864.
Let executions in the cases of Goddard, Crowell, Puckett & Smith, mentioned by you be suspended till further order. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas E. Bramlette
Gov. Bramlette Executive Mansion, Frankfort, Ky. Washington, Jan- 6. 1864.
Yours of yesterday received. Nothing is known here about Gen. Foster's order, of which you complain, beyond the fair presumption that it comes from Gen. Grant, and that it has an object which if you understood, you would be loth to frustrate  True, these troops are, in strict law, only to be removed by my order; but Gen. Grant's judgment would be the highest incentive to me to make such order. Nor can I understand how doing so is bad faith or dishonor; nor yet how it exposes Kentucky to ruin. Military men here do not perceive how it such [ sic ] exposes Kentucky, and I am sure Grant would not permit it, if it so appeared to him. A. LINCOLN

To Luiz I
January 6, 1864.
Abraham Lincoln President of the United States of America. To His Majesty Dom Luis I. King of Portugal. Great & Good Friend, I have received the letter which your majesty was pleased to address to me on the 22 day of October last, imparting intelligence of the birth on the 28th of the preceding month of a Prince, who had received in baptism the names of Carlos Fernando. Your majesty does no more than justice to the friendly feelings of the United States, in believing that they participate with your Majesty and your Royal Family in the joy consequent upon this event; and I beg your Majesty to accept my sincere congratulations I pray God to have your Majesty and Family in His holy keeping your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, Jan 6 1864. By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

Memorandum:Appointment of David D. Johnson
[c. January 6, 1864]
I think I will make this appointment.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. Jan. 7. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Christian IX
January 7, 1864
Abraham Lincoln President of the United States of America To His Majesty Christian IX. King of Denmark Great and Good Friend I have recd. the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 17th day of Nov last, communicating intelligence of the demise on the 15th of that month of His late Majesty Frederick VII, and of your accession to the throne of the Kingdom. Assuring you of my deep sympathy at the death of your august Cousin, who like his predecessors was the constant & steady friend of the U. States, I beg leave to offer to Your Majesty my sincere and hearty congratulations upon your accession to the throne, with my best wishes, that your reign may be happy and glorious to yourself, and prosperous to your realm. Permit me also to assure Your Majesty of my constant and earnest desire to maintain the amity and good correspondence which has always subsisted and still prevails between the two nations and that nothing shall ever be omitted on my part to cultivate and promote maintain?  towards your Majesty the friendly relations always, entertained & cherished by this Government in its relations with his late Majesty and so I recommend your Majesty to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington City Jan 7 1864. By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

Endorsement Concerning Henry Andrews
[January 7, 1864]
The case of Andrews is really a very bad one, as appears by the record already before me. Yet before receiving this I had ordered his punishment commuted to imprisonment for during the war at hard labor, and had so telegraphed. I did this, not on any merit in the case, but because I am trying to evade the butchering business lately. A. LINCOLN.

To Chauncey G. Hawley
Officer in command at Executive Mansion Covington, Ky. Washington,D.C. Jan. 7, 1864.
The death sentence of Henry Andrews is commuted to imprisonment at hard labor during the remainder of the war. A. LINCOLN

To Mary Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Executive Mansion, Philadelphia, Pa. Washington, Jan. 7, 1864.
We are all well, and have not been otherwise. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: January ,1864
I herewith lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, the following described treaties, viz: A treaty made at Fort Bridger, Utah Territory, on the 2d day of July, 1863, between the United States and the chiefs, principal men, and warriors of the eastern bands of the Shoshonee Nation of Indians. A treaty made at Box Elder, Utah Territory, on the 30th day of July, 1863, between the United States and the chiefs and warriors of the northwestern bands of the Shoshonee Nation of Indians. A treaty made at Ruby Valley, Nevada Territory, on the 1st day of October, 1863, between the United States and the chiefs, principal men, and warriors of the [western bands of the] Shoshonee Nation of Indians. A treaty made at Tuilla Valley, Utah Territory, on the 12th day of October, 1863, between the United States and the chiefs, principal men, and warriors of the Goship bands of Shoshonee Indians. A treaty made at Soda Springs, in Idaho Territory, on the 14th day of October, 1863, between the United States and the chiefs of the mixed bands of Bannacks and Shoshonees, occupying the valley of the Shoshonee River. A letter of the Secretary of the Interior of the 5th instant, a copy of a report of the 30th ultimo, from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, a copy of a communication from Governor Doty, superintendent of Indian affairs, Utah Territory, dated November 10, 1863, relating to the Indians, parties to the several treaties herein named, and a map furnished by that gentleman are herewith transmitted. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, Washington, January, 1864.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 7, 1864
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a copy of the Decree of the Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, awarding the sum of seventeen thousand one hundred and fifty dollars and sixty-six cents for the illegal capture of the British schooner ``Glen''; and request that an appropriation of that amount may be made as an indemnification to the parties interested. Washington, 7th. January, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Secretary of War please order Gen. Harrow to report to Gen. Grant. A. LINCOLN Jan. 7, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the request of Governor Buckingham and Senator Foster, within, can consistently be granted, let it be done. Jany. 7. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Crafts J. Wright and Charles K. Hawkes
Executive Mansion, Gentlemen: Washington, Jany. 7, 1864.
You have presented me a plan for getting cotten and other products, from within the rebel lines, from which you think the United States will derive some advantage. Please carefully and considerately, answer me the following questions. 1. If now, without any new order or rule, a rebel should come into our lines with cotten, and offer to take the oath of Dec. 8th. what do you understand would be done with him and his cotten? 2. How will the Physical difficulty, and danger, of getting cotten from within the rebel lines be lessened by your plan? or how will the owners motive to surmount that difficulty and danger, be heightened by it? 3. If your plan be adopted, where do you propose putting the cotten &c. into market? how assure the government of your good faith in the business? and how be compensated for your services? Very Respectfully A. LINCOLN Messrs. Crafts J. Wright & C.K. Hawkes.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: January , 1864.
I herewith lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty made at the Old Crossing of Red Lake River, in the State of Minnesota, on the 2d day of October, 1863, between Alexander Ramsey and Ashley C. Morrill, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs, headmen, and warriors of the Red Lake and Pembina bands of Chippewa Indians. A letter of the Secretary of the Interior, of the 8th instant, together with a communication from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, of the 5th instant, and copies of Mr. Ramsey's report and journal, relating to the treaty, and a map showing the Territory ceded, are herewith transmitted. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion. Washington, January-, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Jan. 8. 1864.
To-day Senator Grimes calls and asks that I may particularly examine the recommendations on file for Grenville M. Dodge for Major Genl. & Edward Hatch of 2nd. Iowa Cav. & Henry C. Caldwell of the 3rd. Iowa. Cav. for Brig. Genls. which I promise to do. Will the Sec. of War please have these papers sent me, which, after examining, I will return? A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Esther Stockton
Executive Mansion, Mrs. Esther Stockton. Washington [Jany.] 8, 1864.
Madam: Learning that you who have passed the eighty-fourth year of life, have given to the soldiers, some three hundred pairs of stockings, knitted by yourself, I wish to offer you my thanks. Will you also convey my thanks to those young ladies who have done so much in feeding our soldiers while passing through your city? Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
Hon: Simon Cameron Executive Mansion Harrisburg, Penn. Washington D.C. Jan. 9. 1864.
Your two letters, one of the 6th and the other of the 7th. both received. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dahlgren
Admiral Dahlgren Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Jan. 9. 1864.
Capt. Lavender wishes to show you a contrivance of his for discovering, and aiding to remove, under-water obstructions to the passage of vessels, and has sufficiently impressed me to induce me to send him to you. He is sufficiently vouched to me as a worthy gentleman; and this known, it needs not my asking for you to treat him as such. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order for Observance of Mourning for Caleb B. Smith
Executive Mansion, January 9th. 1864.
Information having been received that Caleb B. Smith, late Secretary of the Interior, has departed this life, at his residence in Indiana, it is ordered that the Executive Buildings at the seat of the Government be draped in mourning, for the period of fourteen days, in honor of his memory as a prudent and loyal counsellor and a faithful and effective coadjutor of the Administration in a time of public difficulty and peril. The Secretary of State will communicate a copy of this order to the family of the deceased together with proper expressions of the profound sympathy of the President and Heads of Departments in their great and irreparable bereavement. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 9, 1864.
Let General Blunt have leave to come to Washington. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Jan. 9. 1864.
Please send me, to be returned, the testimonials, in favor of Col. Wickliffe Cooper, of Ky, to be a Brigadier General. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Jan. 9. 1864.
Please see Senator Lane, and if you can appoint his man a chaplain, I shall be indeed very glad. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ethan A. Hitchcock
Executive Mansion Washington City, January 10th. 1864.
Major General Hitchcock, Commissioner of Exchanges, is authorized and directed to offer Brigadier-General Trimble now a prisoner of war in Fort McHenry, in exchange for Major White, who is held as a prisoner at Richmond. He is also directed to send forward the offer of exchange by Henry M. Warfield, Esq. of Baltimore, under a flag of truce, and give him a pass to City Point. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Timothy P. Andrews
January 11, 1864.
Submitted to the Pay-Master, General--- Major Whitney is a friend I would like to oblige, but not to the prejudice of the service. A. LINCOLN Jan. 11. 1864.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Hon. Secretary of Treasury: January 11, 1864.
My Dear Sir: I am receiving letters and dispatches indicating an expectation that Mr. Barney is to leave the Custom House, at New York. Have you anything on the subject? Yours very truly, A. LINCOLN.

To James W. Grimes
January 11, 1864
In pursuance of my promise to you I sent for the papers in the three cases mentioned, which were brought to me with a note from the Sec. of War, saying: ``There is no vacancy of a Major or Brigadier General.''

To Robert Todd Lincoln
R. T. Lincoln. Executive Mansion, Cambridge, Mass. Washington, Jany. 11 1864.
I send your draft to-day. How are you now? Answer by telegraph at once. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum: Appointment of Henry P. Wade

Senator Wade must be obliged in this matter before long---a West Point case. A. LINCOLN Jan. 11. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

What does this mean? Sec. of War, please call up subject when we meet Jan. 11. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant or George H. Thomas
Major General Grant, or Executive Mansion Major General Thomas Washington, D.C. Chattanooga, Tenn. Jan. 12, 1864.
Let execution of the death sentence upon William Jeffries, of Co. A. Sixth Indiana Volunteers, be suspended until further order from here. A. LINCOLN

To Oliver P. Morton
Gov. O. P. Morton Executive Mansion, Indianapolis, Ia. Washington, Jan. 12, 1864.
I have telegraphed to Chattanooga suspending execution of William Jeffries until further order from me. A. LINCOLN

Order Fixing Western Base of Union Pacific Railroad
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 12, 1864.
In pursuance of the eleventh section of the act of congress entitled ``An Act to aid in the construction of a Railroad and Telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the Government the use of the same for Postal, Military, and other purposes'' Approved July 1, 1862, the point where the line of the Central Pacific Railroad crosses Arcade creek in the Sacramento valley is hereby fixed as the western base of the Sierra Nevada mountains. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: January 12, 1864
In accordance with the request of the Senate conveyed in their Resolutions of the 16th of December 1863, desiring any information in my possession relative to the alleged exceptional treatment of Kansas troops when captured by those in rebellion, I have the honor to transmit a communication from the Secretary of War, accompanied by reports from the General-in-Chief of the Army, and the Commissary-General of Prisoners, relative to the subject matter of the Resolutions. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Executive Mansion January 12. 1864

To Edward and Henry T. Anthony
Executive Mansion, Dear Sirs Washington, Jan. 13, 1864.
Please accept my thanks for your pretty and acceptable present just now placed in my hands by Mr. Speaker Colfax. Yours truly E & H.T. Anthony & Co N. Y. A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Banks January 13, 1864.
I have received two letters from you which are duplicates, each of the other, except that one bears date the 27th and the other the 30th of December. Your confidence in the practicability of constructing a free state-government, speedily, for Louisiana, and your zeal to accomplish it, are very gratifying. It is a connection, than in which, the words `` can '' and `` will '' were never more precious. I am much in hope that, on the authority of my letter, of December 24th. you have already begun the work. Whether you shall have done so or not, please, on receiving this, proceed with all possible despatch, using your own absolute discretion in all matters which may not carry you away from the conditions stated in your letters to me, nor from those of the Message and Proclamation of December 8th. Frame orders, and fix times and places, for this, and that, according to your own judgement. I am much gratified to know that Mr. Dennison, the Collector at New-Orleans, and who bears you this, understands your views, and will give you his full, and zealous co-operation. It is my wish, and purpose, that all others, holding authority from me, shall do the like; and, to spare me writing, I will thank you to make this known to them. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major-General Butler, Executive Mansion, Fortress Monroe, Va.: Washington, January 13, 1864.
Let Wilson B. Kevas [Kerns], Third Pennsylvania Artillery, be respited until further orders. A. LINCOLN.

To Simeon Draper

Nothing yet about the cotton matter, although I am still considering it. A. LINCOLN Jan. 13, 1864

To Quincy A. Gillmore
Executive Mansion, Major General Gillmore Washington, January 13, 1864.
I understand an effort is being made by some worthy gentlemen to reconstruct a loyal state government in Florida. Florida is in your department, and it is not unlikely that you may be there in person. I have given Mr. Hay a commission of Major, and sent him to you with some blank books and other blanks, to aid in the reconstruction. He will explain, as to the manner of using the blanks, and also my general views on the subject. It is desirable for all to cooperate; but if irreconcileable differences of opinion shall arise, you are master. I wish the thing done in the most speedy way possible, so that, when done, it lie within the range of the late proclamation on the subject. The detail labor, of course, will have to be done by others; but I shall be greatly obliged if you will give it such general supervision as you can find consistent with your more strictly military duties Yours very truly A LINCOLN

To Theodore T. S. Laidley
Executive Mansion, Major Laidley Washington, Jan. 13, 1864.
Please make a trail of the Absterdam projectile, and report to the Secretary of War. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I shall be glad for General Crittenden to have permission to go to New-York, as he desires A. LINCOLN Jan. 13. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Please see & hear the bearer, Mr. Pirsson. Jan. 13, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Private Hon. Sec of War Executive Mansion Sir Washington, Jan 13, 1864.
Gen. Green Clay Smith, in order to take his seat in Congress, had to give up his Military Commission; but he thinks he may wish to ask to have it back, and go to the field again after a few months, and in view of which he would like to have his Asst. Adjt Genl William Cassius Goodloe kept on foot, and asks that, to this end, he may be ordered to report to the Commanding officer at Louisville, Ky. If this can be lawfully done let it be done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Jan. 14, 1864.
Herewith I send to be filed, the papers in regard to the Indiana Judgeship. Besides what is in the papers, Senator, Lane, Speaker Colfax, Rep. Orth Sec. Usher, Bank Com. McCullough, Mr. Defrees & others, all Indianians, verbally expressed their preference for Mr. White. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Executive Mansion, Major Gen. Butler Washington, Jan. 14, 1864.
This will introduce Thomas Stackpole, whom I found in the White-House when I came, having been brought from New-Hampshire by Mr. Pierce. I have found him a straight, energetic man. He desires to go into some business about oysters in your vicinity; and so far as you can consistently facilitate him, I shall be glad. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Charles P. McIlvaine
Executive Mansion, Dear Bishop McIlvaine Washington, Jan. 14, 1864.
I send herein what you have requested. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade, Washington, D.C., Army of the Potomac: January 14, 1864.
Suspend execution of the death sentence in the case of Allen G. Maxson, corporal in Company D, in First Michigan Volunteers, until further order. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum Concerning Edward Haggard
Executive Mansion, Washington, Jan. 14, 1864.
To-day Hon. Brutus J. Clay calls with Mrs. Haggard, and asks that her son, Edward Haggard, now in his nineteenth year, and a prisoner of War at Camp Douglas, may be discharged. Let him take the oath of Dec. 8. and be discharged. A. LINCOLN Do the same for William H. Moore. A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for Miss Weirman
January 14, 1864.
This lady, Miss. Weirman, wants employment, and [I] shall be obliged to any Head of a Department or Bureau who can give it to her. A. LINCOLN Jan. 14. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, Jan. 14, 1864.
I herewith return the papers in the cases of Dodge, Hatch & Caldwell. Please send me now a petition of members of West-Virginia Legislature, asking to have Gen. Sigel put in command there. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John Brough
Gov. Brough Executive Mansion, Columbus, Ohio Washington, Jan. 15. 1864.
If private William G. Toles, of 59th. Ohio Volunteers, returns to his regiment and faithfully serves out his term, he is fully pardoned for all Military offences prior to this. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
[c. January 15, 1864]
I send by Judge John S. Brien a blank book and some other blanks to facilitate the taking oath of Dec. 8. He will verbally explain the mode of using them. He particularly wishes to have Mr. Benjamin C. Robertson to take the oath. I hope you may find Judge Brien useful, in carrying forward the work generally. I assume that anyone in military commission may administer the oaths. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum Concerning John Racey
[c. January 15, 1864]
Dont pardon Racey.

To Lorenzo Thomas
Executive Mansion, Adjutant General Thomas, Washington, Jan. 15. 1864.
It is represented that Mrs. Eugenia P. Bass, owner of plantations in Missippi about seventy miles above Vicksburg, having taken the oath of allegiance, leased and gave possession of said plantations to parties of unquestionable loyalty; and that you, acting perhaps in some mistake of facts, have leased the plantations to other parties. Please ascertain how this is, and if loyal lessees of hers, had rights there prior to any action of yours, do not let them be disturbed. Of course I know nothing certainly about this matter. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To William Crosby and Henry P. Nichols
Messrs Crosby & Nichols. Executive Mansion, Gentlemen Washington, January 16, 1864.
The number for this month and year of the North American Review was duly received, and, for which, please accept my thanks. Of course I am not the most impartial judge; yet with due allowance for this, I venture to hope that the artical entitled the ``Presidents Policy'' will be of value to the country. I fear I am not quite worthy of all which is therein kindly said of me personally. The sentence of twelve lines commencing at the top of page 252, I could wish to be not exactly as it is.  In what is there expressed, the writer has not correctly understood me. I have never had a theory that secession could absolve States or people from their obligations. Precisely the contrary is asserted in the inaugeral address; and it was because of my belief in the continuation of these obligations , that I was puzzled, for a time, as to denying the legal rights of those citizens who remained individually innocent of treason or rebellion. But I mean no more now than to merely call attention to this point. Yours Respectfully A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade or John Sedgwick
Major-General Meade Executive Mansion, or Major-General Sedgwick, Washington, D.C., Army of the Potomac: January 16, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of Joseph W. Clifton, of Sixth New Jersey Volunteers, until further order. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin D. Morgan

Will Senator Morgan please present my compliments to Judge Edmonds, & say to him the books will be gratefully accepted by me. Jan. 16. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Jan. 16. 1864.
Some days ago, upon the unanamous request of our friends in congress from Connecticut, and upon what appeared to be good reason, I ordered a change of Provost Marshal & commissioner, under the enrolment law in one of the Districts---the 4th; and they are complaining now that it is not done. Let it be done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Jeremiah C. Sullivan
Gen. Sullivan Executive Mansion, Harper's Ferry Washington, Jan. 16. 1864.
Please state to me the reasons of the arrest of Capt. William Firey, of Major Coles Battalion, at Charlestown. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas E. Bramlette
Governor Bramlette Executive Mansion, Frankfort, Ky. Washington, Jan. 17, 1864.
Your letter of the 8th. is just received. To your question ``May I not add Q.E.D.?'' I answer, ``no'' because you omit the ``premise'' in the law, that the President may, in his discretion, send these troops out of Kentucky and I take it that if he shall do so on the judgment of Gen. Grant, as to it's propriety, it will be neither cruelty, bad faith or dishonor. When I telegraphed you, I knew, though I did not say so to you, that Gen. Grant was, about that time, with Gen. Foster at Knoxville, and could not be ignorant of or averse to the order which alarmed you. I see he has since passed through Kentucky, and I hope you have had a conference with him. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas B. Bryan
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir. Washington, January 18th, 1864.
I have recieved the two copies of the lithographed fac-smile of the original draft of the Emancipation Proclamation, which you have had the kindness to send me, and in answer to your question, I have to say that although I have not examined it in detail, yet it impresses me favorably as being a faithful and correct copy. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN. Thos B Bryan Esq Chicago, Illinois.

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler [January 18, 1864]
Fort-Monroe. Gov. Pierpoint has been, from the first, a zealous and efficient supporter of the government. He now understands that you have ordered all the municipal officers of Norfolk and Portsmouth to report to you in detail the amounts of all money received by them, &c. and also that your have constituted a commission to investigate the condition of the Savings Funds and Banking institutions there; and he, as Governor, feels agrieved by these measures. The President directs me to request you to suspend these measures, until you can state to him, in writing or otherwise, your views of the necessity or propriety of them. EDWIN M STANTON Sec of War

Endorsement Concerning A. Z. Boyer

Let A. Z. Boyer, named within, take the oath of December 8th. 1863, upon doing which he is pardoned and to be discharged. Jan. 18. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Charles T. Hagan
January 18, 1864
At the request of the Hon. Mr. Harding of Kentucky it is ordered that the within named Charles Thomas Hagan may take the oath of Dec. 8 & be discharged A. LINCOLN Jan. 18. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let a pass be allowed in this case. A. LINCOLN Jan. 18, 1864

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion Whom it may concern: Washington, January 18, 1864
The bearer, John P.W. [M.] Thornton, a private in Co. E 61st New York volunteers, comes to me voluntarily under apprehension that he may be arrested, convicted, and punished as a deserter; and I hereby direct him to report forthwith to his regiment for duty, and upon condition that he does this, and faithfully serves out his term, or until he shall be honorably discharged for any cause, he is fully pardoned for any supposed desertion heretofor committed. A. LINCOLN.

To John Clark
Col. John Clark. Executive Mansion, Of 3rd. Regt. of Penn. Reserves Washington, Alexandria, Va. Jan. 19, 1864.
Where is, John Wilson, under sentence for desertion, of whom you wrote Hon Mr. Thayer yesterday? A. LINCOLN

To Robert T. Lincoln
R. T. Lincoln, Executive Mansion, Cambridge, Mass: Washington, January 19, 1864.
There is a good deal of small-pox here. Your friends must judge for themselves whether they ought to come or not. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY.

To Edwin M. Stanton and Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion Washington Dec. [ sic ] Jan 19./64
To-day Hon. Joshua R. Giddings calls and says his son, Major Grotius R. Giddings, of the 14th. Regular Infantry, wishes his name to be remembered, if Brigadier Generals shall be appointed for colored troops. A. LINCOLN Submitted to the Sec. of War & General-in-Chief. Jan. 19. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Executive Mansion Major General Butler. Washington D.C. Jan. 20. 1864.
If Henry C. Fuller, of Co. C. 118th. N.Y. Vols. under sentence of death for desertion, has not been executed, suspend his execution until further order. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion Fort-Monroe Washington D.C. Jan. 20. 1864.
Please suspend executions, until further order, in the cases of private Henry Wooding, of Co. C. 8th. Conn. Vols. and private Albert A. Lacy of Co. H. 4th. Rhode-Island Vols. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Charles M. Shelton
January 20, 1864
Hon. James E. English, endorses the writer of the within, and states that he personally knows much of what is set forth to be true. The said Charles M. Shelton, is pardoned for the unexecuted part of his punishment, and is to be fully discharged. Jan. 20. 1864. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Hoskins:Appointment of John D.C. Hoskins
[c. January 20, 1864]
John D. C. Hoskins---18 years of age. Jan. 19. 1864. West-Point--- Gen. Hitchcock, will present a paper. I have seen this boy's discharge, by which it appears that he has served thirty days during this war. A. LINCOLN Jan. 20. 1864

Memorandum Concerning Thomas J. Kellinger
January 20, 1864
Thomas J. Kellinger, having been pardoned upon condition of his entering the Naval service, and having been rejected as physically unfit for that service, his pardon is now made absolute and unconditional. A. LINCOLN Jan. 20. 1864

Order Concerning W. D. Walker
January 20, 1864
Let this man take the oath of December 8th. & be discharged. It is not improbable he is already discharged by Gen. Marston  on these terms. A. LINCOLN Jan. 20. 1864

To John Sedgwick
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Sedgwicke Jan. 20, 1864
Suspend execution till further order, in case of private James Lane, Co. B. 71st. N.Y.vols. A. LINCOLN

To John Sedgwick
Major-General Sedgwick, Executive Mansion, Army of the Potomac: Washington, January 20, 1864.
Please suspend execution of John Wilson, of Seventy-first Pennsylvania, under sentence for desertion, till further order. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 20, 1864
Gentlemen of the Senate and House of Representatives In accordance with a letter addressed by the Secretary of State, with my approval, to the Hon. Joseph A. Wright, of Indiana, that patriotic and distinguished gentleman repaired to Europe and attended the International Agricultural Exhibition held at Hamburg last year, and has, since his return made a report to me, which it is believed, can not fail, to be of general interest, and especially so to the agricultural community. I transmit, for your consideration, copies of the letter and report. While it appears by the letter that no re-imbursement of expences, or compensation, was promised him, I submit whether reasonable allowance should not be made him for them. ABRAHAM LINCOLN January 20th. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 20, 1864
Submitted to Sec. of War. If another Assistant Quarter-Master---is needed to serve in Central Illinois, or with Illinois troops, let Mr. Lawrence be appointed. A. LINCOLN Jan. 20, 1864.

To Frederick Steele
Executive Mansion Washington, D.C. Major General Steele Jan. 20. 1864.
Sundry citizens of the State of Arkansas petition me that an election may be held in that State, at which to elect a Governor thereof; that it be assumed at said election, and thenceforward, that the constitution and laws of the State, as before the rebellion, are in full force, except that the constitution is so modified as to declare that ``There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except in the punishment of crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted; but the General Assembly may make such provision for the freed-people as shall recognize and declare their permanent freedom, provide for their education, and which may yet be consistent, as a temporary arrangement, with their present condition as a laboring, landless, and homeless class''; and also except that all now existing laws in relation to slaves are inoperative and void; that said election be held on the twentyeighth day of March next, at all the usual voting places of the State, or all such as voters may attend for that purpose; that the voters attending at each place, at eight o'clock in the morning of said day, may choose Judges and Clerks of election for that place; that all persons qualified by said constitution and laws, and taking the oath prescribed in the Presidents proclamation of December the 8th. 1863, either before or at the election, and none others, may be voters provided that persons having the qualifications aforesaid, and being in the Volunteer military service of the United States, may vote once wherever this may be at voting places; that each sett of Judges and Clerks may make return directly to you, on or before the eleventh day of April next; that in all other respects said election may be conducted according to said modified constitution, and laws; that, on receipt of said returns, you count said votes, and that, if the number shall reach, or exceed, five thousand four hundred and six, you canvass said votes and ascertain who shall thereby appear to have been elected Governor; and that on the eighteenth day of April next, the person so appearing to have been elected, and appearing before you at Little Rock, to have, by you, administered to him, an oath to support the constitution of the United States and said modified constitution of the State of Arkansas, and actually taking said oath, be by you declared qualified, and be enjoined to immediately enter upon the duties of the office of Governor of said State; and that you thereupon declare the constitution of the State of Arkansas to have been modified and amended as aforesaid, by the action of the people as aforesaid. You will please order an election immediately, and perform the other parts assigned you, with necessary incidentals, all according to the foregoing. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, Jan. 21. 1864.
Suspend until further order, the execution of James C. Gratton, of Co. F. 11th. Penn. Cavalry, and send record of his case. A. LINCOLN

To James W. Grimes
Hon. J. W. Grimes Executive Mansion My dear Sir Washington, January 21, 1864
Yours of yesterday about vacancies of Generalships was received today and referred to the War-Department for further information. I did not give you my understanding , but the Secretary's distinct statement that ``There is no vacancy of a Major, or Brigadier General.'' Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of Alexander D. B. Smead

West-Point--- This is a very strong case. A. LINCOLN Jan. 21. 1864.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. January 21, 1864
In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of yesterday respecting the recent destruction by fire of the church of the Compania at Santiago, Chile, and the efforts of citizens of the United States to rescue the victims of the conflagration, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, with the papers accompanying it. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, January 21, 1864.

To Commander at Fort Independence
Military commander, at Executive Mansion, Fort-Independence Washington, January 22, 1864.
Suspend until further order, execution of Charles R. Betts of 12th. Massachusetts, and send me the record of his trial. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement
January 22, 1864
Let the within named, except Yocum, take the oath of Dec 8 & be discharged. Yocum is in the Old Capitol, not as a prisoner of war, but for an offence for which he has suffered enough & should, as I think, be discharged. A. LINCOLN. Jan. 22, 1864.

Remarks to Arkansas Delegation
January 22, 1864
The President announced to the Arkansas delegation, this afternoon, that he had determined not to appoint a separate Military Governor, but to entrust to General Steele, the recently appointed Commander of the Department of Arkansas, with both the military and civil administration of the State. He stated the reason to be that the experience of the past had proved that there was constant conflict between military governors and military commanders, which was injurious to the interests under their charge. He expressed hopes that a formal organization of the State Government under the terms of the Amnesty Proclamation would speedily be made by the people of Arkansas. The delegation was fully satisfied with the President's action.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Secretary of War, please send me nominations according to the within, irrespective of whether there are any vacancies Jan. 22. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Jan. 23, 1864.
I do not quite understand the little difficulty about the Marshal of Ky; but if you understand it is now, clear, send me a nomination of Mr. William A. Meriwether, for that office. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Alpheus Lewis
Alpheus Lewis, Esq. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, January 23. 1864.
You have enquired how the government would regard and treat cases wherein the owners of plantations, in Arkansas, for instance, might fully recognize the freedom of those formerly slaves, and by fair contracts of hire with them, re-commence the cultivation of their plantations. I answer I should regard such cases with great favor, and should, as the principle, treat them precisely as I would treat the same number of free white people in the same relation and condition. Whether white or black, reasonable effort should be made to give government protection. In neither case should the giving of aid and comfort to the rebellion, or other practices injurious to the government, be allowed on such plantations; and in either, the government would claim the right to take if necessary those of proper ages and conditions into the military service. Such plan must not be used to break up existing leases or arrangements of abandoned plantations which the government may have made to give employment and sustenance to the idle and destitute people. With the foregoing qualifications and explanations, and in view of it's tendency to advance freedom, and restore peace and prosperity, such hireing and employment of the freed people, would be regarded by me with rather especial favor. Yours truly A. LINCOLN P.S. To be more specific I add that all the Military, and others acting by authority of the United States, are to favor and facilitate the introduction and carrying forward, in good faith, the free-labor system as above indicated, by allowing the necessary supplies therefor to be procured and taken to the proper points, and by doing and forbearing whatever will advance it; provided that existing military and trade regulations be not transcended thereby. I shall be glad to learn that planters adopting this system shall have employed one so zealous and active as yourself to act as an agent in relation thereto. A.L. This P.S. is in the body of the letter given 

Permit to Christopher F. Field and Christopher F. Clay
Executive Mansion, Washington, [January 23?], 1864.
Confiding in the representations and assurances made and given by Hon. Brutus J. Clay of Kentucky, that if permitted, and afforded reasonable protection and facilities by the government, his brother-in-law, Christopher F. Field, and his son, Christopher F. Clay, having, prior to the rebellion, had ownership and lawful control, of several plantations in Mississippi and Arkansas would put said plantations into cultivation, upon the system of free hired labor, recognizing and acknowledging the freedom of the laborers, and totally excluding from said plantations, the slave system of labor and all actual slavery, and would neither do or permit anything on said plantations which would aid the rebellion, it is hereby ordered that said Christopher F. Field, and Christopher F. Clay, or either of them, be permitted to so put said plantations, or any of them, into cultivation; and that the Military, and all others acting by the authority of the United States, are to favor and facilitate said Field and Clay in the carrying forward said business in good faith, by giving them protection, and allowing them to procure, and take to the proper points, the necessary supplies of all kinds, and by doing and forbearing in whatever way will advance the object aforesaid; provided that existing Military or Trade regulations, nor any military necessity, be transcended or over-ridden thereby. ABRAHAM LINCOLN I have made the representations and given the assurances as within indicated. BRUTUS J. CLAY Feb. 1. 1864

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: January 23, 1864
I transmit to the Senate a copy of a dispatch of the 12th. of April, last, addressed by Anson Burlingame, Esquire, the Minister of the United States to China, to the Secretary of State, relative to a modification of the 21st. article of the Treaty between the United States and China of the 18th. of June 1858, a printed copy of which is also herewith transmitted. These papers are submitted to the consideration of the Senate with a view to their advice and consent being given to the modification of the said Twenty-first article as explained in the said dispatch and its accompaniments. Washington, 23d. January, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Cadwallader C. Washburn
Major General C. C. Washburn. Executive Mansion, [Care of C. & G. Woodman Washington, No. 33 Pine Street, N.Y. City]  Jan. 23, 1864.
Your brother wishes you to visit Washington, and this is your authority to do so. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Hon. Attorney General please make out & send me a pardon in this case. A. LINCOLN Jan. 25. 1864.

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., January 25, 1864.
My dear Sir: Not intending to hurry you, may I ask if the new provisions about trade in cotton and sugar are nearly ready to go into effect? Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Endorsement
January 25, 1864
Senator Powell says that of the many applications he has, he thinks the within named may safely be allowed to take the oath and be discharged. He says those designated as officers have resigned, as they write to him and he believes. Let them all take the oath of Dec. 8. and be discharged. Jan. 25. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
January 25, 1864
I have declined to sign the within; and yet I do desire that an examination of Mrs. Bass' losses may be made by those having the means of doing so; and that she be paid, or her account forwarded to the War Department, in due form, accordingly as the rules of the service may apply to her case. A. LINCOLN Jan. 25. 1864 Majr. Genl. Grant.

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Johnson Executive Mansion, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, Jan. 25, 1864.
The oath in the proclamation may be administered by the Military Governor, the Military commander of the Department, and by all persons designated by them for that purpose. Loyal as well as disloyal should take the oath, because it does not hurt them, clears all question as to their right to vote, and swells the aggregate number who take it, which is an important object. This  is the President's reply to your questions of the 14th. I intend to start for Nashville in the morning. Will go directly through---stopping a few hours in Cincinnati, where a dispatch will reach me. HORACE MAYNARD Please send the above as public business. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major-General Meade: January 25, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of Robert Gill, ordered to be shot on the 29th instant, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY.

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major-General Meade: January 25, 1864.
Suspend execution of sentence Samuel Tyler, of Company G. Third Regiment New Jersey Volunteers, in First Brigade, First Division, Sixth Corps, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch JNO. G. NICOLAY.

Recommendation for Henry R. Green
Washington Jan 25. 1864
This is to show that Henry R. Greene Esq of Illinois is an upright, honorable and worthy man. I have known him and his family for many years. Mr Greene goes to New Orleans intending to establish himself in some business there. For several years before the commencement of the Rebellion, he spent his winters there and is acquainted with the customs of the South. I hope the various commanders, agents and employees of the Government will extend to Mr Greene such aid and facilities as are  proper and consistent with the interests of the service. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe Washington, Jan. 26. 1864.
Some days ago a despatch was sent to stay execution of James C. Gratton, & perhaps some others, which has not been answered. Please answer. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum

I find this bundle of somewhat old papers upon my table, & can not remember for what object they were left. Please file them. Jan. 26. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Order Approving Trade Regulations
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 26, 1864.
I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, having seen and considered the Additional Regulations of Trade prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and numbered LI, LII, LIII, LIV, LV, and LVI, do hereby approve the same; and I further declare and order that all property brought in for sale in good faith, and actually sold in pursuance of said Regulations LII, LIII, LIV, LV, and LVI, after the same shall have taken effect and come in force as provided in Regulation LVI, shall be exempt from confiscation or forfeiture to the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To John Sedgwick
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major-General Sedgwick: January 26, 1864.
Your letter of January 22, received. Suspend execution of sentence in all the capital cases mentioned in General Orders No. 1 and 2, where it has not already been done. I recapitulate the whole list of capital cases mentioned in said orders including those cases in which execution has been heretofore, as well as those on which it is now suspended. Private John Wilson, Company D, Seventy-first Pennsylvania; Private James Lane, Company B, Seventy-first New York; Private Joseph W. Clifton, Company F, Sixth New Jersey; Private Ira Smith, Company I, Eleventh New Jersey; Private Allen G. Maxson, Company D, First Michigan; Private John Keatly, Company I, Second Delaware; Private Daniel P. Byrnes, Company A, Ninety-eighth Pennsylvania; Private Samuel Tyler, Company G, Third New Jersey; Private Robert Gill, Company D, Sixth New York Cavalry. Forward the records in these cases for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. Jan. 27. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
January 27, 1864
This is a good recommendation for a territorial Judgeship, embracing both sides in Missouri & many other respectable gentlemen. A. LINCOLN Jan. 27, 1864

To John G. Foster
Majr. Gen. Foster Washington, D.C., Knoxville, Tenn. January 27 1864
Is a supposed correspondence between Gen. Longstreet and yourself, about the amnesty proclamation, which is now in the newspapers, genuine? A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Edward L. Wooden

West-Point Edward L. Wooden, of Conn---18 in Augt. 1863, is 5. feet 10. and has served 9 months in the War---upon the Mississippi. Jan. 27. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Frederick Steele
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Steele: January 27, 1864.
I have addressed a letter to you, and put it in the hands of Mr. Gantt and other Arkansas gentlemen, containing a programme for an election in that State. This letter will be handed you by some of these gentlemen. Since writing, it I see that a convention in Arkansas, having the same general object, has taken some action, which I am afraid may clash somewhat with my programme. I therefore can do no better than to ask you to see Mr. Gantt immediately on his return, and with him, do what you and he may deem necessary to harmonize the two plans into one, and then put it through with all possible vigor. Be sure to retain the free State constitutional provision in some unquestionable form, and you and he can fix the rest. The points I have made in the programme have been well considered. Take hold with an honest heart and a strong hand. Do not let any questionable man control or influence you. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George L. Andrews
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 28, 1864.
To the Commanding Officer at Fort Preble, Portland, Me.: Suspend the execution of death sentence of Charles Caple, until further orders, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch. I infer from the letter on which the reprieve is granted that Fort Preble is in Maine, but do not certainly know. Please inquire of Colonel Hardee. As the execution was set for to-morrow, it is important that the dispatch should go at once. JNO. G. NICOLAY, Private Secretary.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out pardons in these cases. Jan. 28. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, January 28, 1864.
My dear Sir: Herewith I return this proof-sheet of the new rules. I suggest two points, but do not urge them. First, that as the trust and emoluments of the agents are to be increased, should not their bonds be increased?  Secondly, might it not be well to fix a maximum, as is sometimes done in acts of Congress, beyond which the one per cent. compensation shall not go in a year?  If the increase of business should necessitate the appointment of an additional agent, I would be glad for Charles K. Hawkes to be appointed. He is one of the three so favorably mentioned by the treasury and other officers at New Orleans, in the letter I read in your hearing twice or thrice, I believe.  I have some reason to believe it would please General Banks, though he has not said so, that I have heard. I have heard that he and General Banks are old acquaintances and friends. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
January 28, 1864
This boy says he knows Secretary Chase, and would like to have the place made vacant by William Johnson's death. I believe he is a good boy and I should be glad for him to have the place if it is still vacant. A. LINCOLN Jan. 28, 1864

To Commanding Officer at Fort Mifflin
Executive Mansion, Washington, Commanding Officer, Fort Mifflin: January 28, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of Bernard Develin, Company E, Eighty-first Pennsylvania Volunteers, until further orders, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY, Private Secretary.

To John W. Forney

Will see the gentlemen at 7. P.M. this evening. A. LINCOLN Jan. 28. 1864

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion, Washington, Maj Genl Halleck. Jan 28th. 1864.
Some citizens of Missouri---vicinity of Kansas City---are apprehensive that there is special danger of renewed troubles in that neighbourhood and thence on the route toward New-Mexico. I am not impressed that the danger is very great or imminent, but I will thank you to give Genls Rosecrans and Curtis respectively such orders as may turn their attention thereto and prevent as far as possible the apprehended disturbances. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edward Stanly
Hon. Edward Stanley Executive Mansion, Washington, San Francisco. Cal. January 28, 1864.
Yours of yesterday received. We have rumors similar to the despatch received by you, but nothing very definite from North Carolina. Knowing Mr. Stanley to be an able man, and not doubting that he is a patriot, I should be glad for him to be with his old acquaintances South of Virginia, but I am unable to suggest anything definite upon the subject. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Jan. 28. 1864.
Col. Thomas C. Devin represents that Robert Gill, now of Co. D. 6th. N.Y. Cavalry, of which he Col. D. is the Colonel, is under sentence of death for desertion & that since his desertion, he has fought at Gettysburg and in several other battles, & has otherwise behaved well; and he asks that said Gill may be pardoned and sent to his Regiment. Let it be done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George S. Boutwell
Hon. George S. Boutwell Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, January 29, 1864.
Please call and see me this morning, and as soon after receiving this as convenient. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Halleck, January 29, 1864.
The New Mexico people here understand that Gen. Joseph R. West, has asked to be relieved of his command in that part of the country; and they say they are for his being relieved. Let it be done unless you know some reason to the contrary. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of Henry O. Ryerson
Executive Mansion, Washington, Jan. 29, 1864.
This morning I am impressed with the belief that the appointment of Col. Henry O. Ryerson of 10th. New-Jersey, as a Brig. Genl. would be, perhaps the best that can be made for the State. He has been in the war almost or quite from the beginning; and has been severely wounded, having been in nearly all the battles of the A.P. A. LINCOLN

To John Sedgwick
Major General Sedgwick Executive Mansion Army of Potomac Washington D.C. Jan. 29. 1864
Suspend execution of George Sowers, Co. E. 4th. Ohio Vols. & send record. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: January 29, 1864
I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State, in answer to the resolution of the Senate, respecting the correspondence with the authorities of Great Britain, in relation to the proposed pursuit of hostile bands of the Sioux Indians into the Hudson Bay Territories ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, 29th. Jany. 1864.

To Daniel E. Sickles
Major General Sickles Executive Mansion, New-York: Washington, January 29, 1864.
Could you, without it's being inconvenient, or disagreeable to yourself, immediately take a trip to Arkansas for me? A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt
January 30, 1864
In accordance with the recommendation of Major General Meade, the sentence of Capt. Jesse Armstrong, 7th Indiana Volunteers is commuted to forfeiture of one months pay proper. Jan. 30, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
January 30, 1864
In consideration of the recommendation made by Major General Schofield and the long period of time this officer has already been under arrest, his sentence is hereby remitted. A. LINCOLN January 30, 1864

To Frederick Steele
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Steele January 30. 1864.
Since writing mine of the 27th. seeing still further accounts of the action of the convention in Arkansas, induces me to write you yet again. They seem to be doing so well, that possibly the best you can do would be to help them on their own plan---but of this, you must confer with them, and be the judge. Of all things, avoid if possible, a dividing into cliques among the friends of the common object. Be firm and resolute against such as you can perceive would make confusion and division. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Banks January 31, 1864.
Yours of the 22nd. Inst. is just received. In the proclamation of Dec. 8. and which contains the oath that you say some loyal people wish to avoid taking, I said: And  still further, that this proclamation is intended to present the people of the States wherein the national authority has been suspended, and loyal State governments have been subverted, a mode in and by which the national authority and loyal State governments may be re-established within said States, or in any of them; and, while the mode presented is the best the Executive can suggest, with his present impressions, it must not be understood that no other possible mode would be acceptable. And speaking of this in the Message, I said: Saying  that reconstruction will be accepted if presented in a specified way, it is not said it will never be accepted in any other way. These things were put into these documents on purpose that some conformity to circumstances should be admissable; and when I have, more than once, said to you in my letters that available labor already done should not be thrown away, I had in my mind the very class of cases you now mention. So you see it is not even a modification of anything I have heretofore said when I tell you that you are at liberty to adopt any rule which shall admit to vote any unquestionably loyal free-state men and none others. And yet I do wish they would all take the oath. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Thomas E. Bramlette
Governor Bramlette Executive Mansion. Frankfort, Ky. Washington, D.C. Jan. 31. 1864
Gen. Boyles resignation is accepted, so that your Excellency can give him the appointment proposed. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major-General Dix, New York: February 1, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of Frank W. Parker, of one of the Maine regiments, sentenced to be shot for desertion on the 5th instant, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY, Private Secretary.

To Caleb Lyon
Hon. Caleb Lyon Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, February 1, 1864
Gov. Wallace of Idaho is very anxious for a different man to be appointed Gov. of that Territory. I told him my promise to you was absolute, but if he could persuade you out of it, all right, but that I should keep my word with you. See the Governor, and then call and see me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order for Draft of 500,000 Men
Executive Mansion Ordered: February 1st. 1864.
That a draft for five hundred thousand men to serve for three years or during the war, be made on the tenth day of March next, for the military service of the United States, crediting and deducting therefrom, so many as may have been enlisted or drafted into the service prior to the first day of March, and not heretofore credited. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, February 1, 1864.
Sir: You are directed to have a transport (either a steam or sailing vessel as may be deemed proper by the Quartermaster-General) sent to the colored colony established by the United States at the island of Vache, on the coast of San Domingo, to bring back to this country such of the colonists there as desire to return. You will have the transport furnished with suitable supplies for that purpose, and detail an officer of the Quartermaster's Department who, under special instructions to be given, shall have charge of the business. The colonists will be brought to Washington, unless otherwise hereafter directed, and be employed and provided for at the camps for colored persons around that city. Those only will be brought from the island who desire to return, and their effects will be brought with them. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Kamehameha V
To His Majesty Kamehameha, V, February 2, 1864
King of the Hawaiian Islands. Great and Good Friend: I have read with feelings of profound sorrow your Majesty's letter of the 5th. December last announcing the death on the 30th. of the preceding month, of His Majesty, your Brother, Kamehameha IV, and conveying also the pleasing intelligence of your Majesty's constitutional succession to the Throne of the Hawaiian Kingdom. Your Majesty's anticipations of sympathy from me in the double bereavement which you have experienced in the decease of your Sovereign and Brother are fully realized. Not only I, but the whole American People are deeply moved by the intelligence of the event with which God in His infinite wisdom has afflicted your Majesty and the Hawaiian nation; for whom this Government and people have ever entertained sentiments of almost paternal regard, as well as of sincere friendship and unchanging interest. It is gratifying to know that His Majesty's place on the Throne and in the hearts of the Hawaiian people is occupied by one who was allied to him by the closest ties of blood, and by a long participation in the affairs of the Kingdom. These influences, controlled by the Supreme Ruler of the Universe whose guidance your Majesty invokes, and by those aspirations which your Majesty cherishes for the good of your subjects, cannot fail to assure the well-being and prosperity of the Hawaiian Kingdom. Your Majesty may ever firmly rely upon my sincere sympathy and cordial support and upon the abiding friendship of the people of the United States in the execution of the lofty mission entrusted to you by Providence. Commending your Majesty, and the bereaved Widow and People of the late King to the Fatherly protection and comfort of the Almighty, I remain Your Majesty's Good Friend, By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN. WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. Washington, February 2d. 1864.

Order Approving Regulations of Trade
Executive Mansion Washington, February 2, 1864.
I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, having seen and considered the Additional Regulation of Trade prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and numberd LVII, do hereby approve the same. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State, Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, Feb. 2, 1864.
Please send me a nomination for Hon. Caleb Lyon, as Governor of Idaho Territory. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Charles A. Dana
[February 3, 1864]
Will Mr. Dana please see and hear this man and do the best for him he can? A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

Upon the refunding all bounties and other expenses, let this boy be discharged. A. LINCOLN Feb. 3. 1864

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion Washington, Judge Advocate General Feb. 3. 1864
Please obtain the record, examine & report upon it, in the case of --- Yocum, mentioned in the accompanying letter. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, February 3, 1864.
Please see Hon. Wm. R. Morrison, and oblige him about the pass-ports for Mr. Merrick if you consistently can. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Richard Yates
Gov. Yates Executive Mansion, Springfield, Ills. Washington, Feb. 3, 1864.
The U.S. government lot in Springfield, can be used for a Soldiers Home, with the understanding that the government does not incur any expence in the case. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Everett
Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, February 4, 1864.
Yours of Jan. 30th. was received four days ago; and since then the address mentioned has arrived. Thank you for it. I send herewith the manuscript of my remarks at Gettysburg, which, with my note to you of Nov. 20th. you are at liberty to use for the benefit of our soldiers as you have requested. Yours very truly Hon. Edward Everett. A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt

If the Judge Advocate General has made report as within indicated, please send me the report and record. A. LINCOLN Feb. 4. 1864.

To the Senate
To the Senate: February 4, 1864
In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the 26th ultimo, requesting ``a copy of all the correspondence between the authorities of the United States and the Rebel authorities on the exchange of prisoners, and the different propositions connected with that subject,'' I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of War, and the papers with which it is accompanied. Washington, ABRAHAM LINCOLN February 4, 1864.

To Green Adams
February 5, 1864
You see the ladys name is not given in this letter. Judge Adams, may, in his discretion, send the enclosed card---blank to be filled by who can. A. LINCOLN Feb. 5, 1864

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. February 5, 1864
In answer to the Resolution of the Senate of yesterday on the subject of a Reciprocity Treaty with the Sandwich Islands, I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State, to whom the Resolution was referred. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, 5 February 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 5, 1864
Submitted to the Sec. of War. On principle I dislike an oath which requires a man to swear he has not done wrong. It rejects the Christian principle of forgiveness on terms of repentance. I think it is enough if the man does no wrong hereafter . A. LINCOLN Feb. 5. 1864

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Washington, Majr. Gen. N. P. Banks: February 6th, 1864.
The bearer, Gen. G. A. Scroggs, of Buffalo, has been appointed colonel of a colored regiment, and is to report with it to you at New Orleans. The object of moving in this matter is to have Col. Scroggs sent by you, with his regiment, to Texas, charged to collect and organize the colored men of that State, it being believed that such a nucleus as this regiment, and such an experienced organizer of troops as Col. Scroggs has shown himself, will prove highly successful. I hope this purpose will meet with your approval, and that, by such orders as your judgment will dictate, you will put Col. S. in the way of executing his mission. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Henry D. Terry
Executive Mansion, Washington, February 6, 1864.
Commanding Officer at Sandusky, Ohio: Suspend the execution of death sentence of George Samuel Goodrich, Jr., One hundred and twenty-second Regiment New York Volunteers, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Send above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY, Private Secretary.

Endorsement: Release of A. H. Gray

Mr. Baxter of Vermont is very anxious to have the request granted at once. A. LINCOLN Feby 7, 1864

Endorsement: Request of C. T. Benton

This is the Canada lady's case about which Mr. Baxter is so anxious as I told Sec. of War. A. LINCOLN Feb. 7. 1864

To George L. Andrews
Executive Mansion, Commanding Officer, Portland, Me., Washington, care of Israel Washburne, Jr.: February 8, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of James Taylor until further orders, and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY Private Secretary.

To John D. Defrees

Our own friends have this under consideration now, and will do as much without a Message as with it A. L. Feb. 8. 1864

To Joseph Holt
February 8, 1864
In consederation of the recommendation referred to, and that the party has already suffered much he is hereby pardoned for the rest. A. LINCOLN Feb. 8. 1864

To Isaac Murphy
Gov. Isaac Murphy Washington, D.C., Little-Rock, Arkansas February 8. 1864
My order to Gen. Steele about an election was made in ignorance of the action your convention had taken or would take. A subsequent letter directs Gen. Steele to aid you on your own plan, and not to thwart or hinder you. Show this to him. A. LINCOLN.

To John Sedgwick
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major-General Sedgwick: February 8, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of James Taylor until further orders and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY Private Secretary.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Feb. 8, 1864.
Allow Gen. Benham to simply publish Mr. Holt's report in his case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion--- My dear Sir: Washington. Feb. 8. 1864.
I saw Doolittle and made your views known to him. He is altogether tractable on the question and thinks there is no danger of precipitate action. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Lieut. Monroe is a son of an old friend of mine, and I desire him to have the promotion sought, if the service admits of it. Feb. 8. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Action to relieve in this declined A. LINCOLN Feb. 9. 1864

To John Brough
Gov. Brough Washington, D.C., Columbus, Ohio Feb. 10 1864
Robert Johnson, mentioned by you, is hereby fully pardoned, for any supposed desertion, up to date A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Order of dismissal set aside, and party to stand as honorably discharged. A. LINCOLN Feb. 10. 1864

To Joseph Holt
Dennis McCarty--- February 10, 1864
Sentence of death at Cumberland, Md. Sentence commuted to imprisonment at hard labor in the Penitentiary for five years. A. LINCOLN Feb. 10. 1864

To Joseph Holt

Boy discharged and mustering officer rebuked Feb'y 10, 1864. A LINCOLN

To Daniel Sickles
Major General Sickles Washington, D.C., New-York Feb. 10 1864
Please come on at your earliest convenience, prepared to make the contemplated trip for me. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please see Col. Alger, who has come up on our invitation in regard to the proclamation. A. LINCOLN Feb. 10. 1864

To Lyman Trumbull
Hon. Lyman Trumbull Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Feb. 10, 1864.
This morning I sent the nomination of --- Pieper to the Senate for Assessor in the 12th. District of Illinois. If you see no objection, I wish you would write to Mr. Flagg, asking him to give Shiel the place Pieper now has. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Let a pardon be made out in this case. A. LINCOLN Feb. 11. 1864

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out and send me a pardon in this case. A. LINCOLN Feb. 11. 1864.

To Salmon P. Chase

Hon. Sec. of Treasury, please see & hear my townsman & friend Mr. Van Duyn. A. LINCOLN Feb. 11. 1864

Endorsement Concerning Pennsylvania Militia

I fully indorse the within statement, and shall be glad if Congress shall see fit to act promptly in the case. A. LINCOLN Feb. 11, 1864

To John Sedgwick
Major Gen. Sedgwick Washington, Army of Potomac Feb. 11. 1864
Unless there be strong reason to the contrary, please send Gen. Kilpatrick to us here, for two or three days. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Feb. 11, 1864.
In January 1863, the Provost-Marshal at St. Louis, having taken the control of a certain church from one set of men and given it to another, I wrote Gen. Curtis on the subject, as follows: ``the U.S. Government must not, as by this order, undertake to run the churches. When an individual, in a church or out of it, becomes dangerous to the public interest, he must be checked; but the churches, as such, must take care of themselves. It will not do for the U.S. to appoint trustees, Supervisors, or other agents for the churches.'' Some trouble remaining in this same case, I, on the 22nd. of Dec. 1863, in a letter to Mr. O. D. Filley, repeated the above language; and, among other things, added ``I have never interfered, nor thought of interfering as to who shall or shall not preach in any church; nor have I knowingly, or believingly, tolerated any one else to so interfere by my authority. If any one is so interfering by color of my authority, I would like to have it specifically made known to me. . . . I will not have control of any church on any side.'' After having made these declarations in good faith, and in writing, you can conceive of my embarrassment at now having brought to me what purports to be a formal order of the War Department, bearing date Nov. 30th. 1863, giving Bishop Ames control and possession of all the Methodist churches in certain Southern Military Departments, whose pastors have not been appointed by a loyal Bishop or Bishops, and ordering the Military to aid him against any resistance which may be made to his taking such possession and control. What  is to be done about it? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John B. Steele
February 11, 1864
It is not proposed to send Gen. Sickles, with any authority to control Gen. Steele in any matter; but only to confer with him and give him my views more fully than I can do by writing or by telegraph. A. LINCOLN Feb. 11, 1864

To John P. Usher

Hon. Sec. of Interior---Please see and hear my friend, S. M. Cullom. A. LINCOLN Feb 11, 1864

To Stephen Cabot
Military Commander Executive Mansion Boston, Mass. Washington Feb. 12. 1864
If there is anywhere in your command, a man by the name of James Taylor under sentence of death for desertion, suspend execution till further order A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Secretary of the Treasury Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, [February 12], 1864.
I have felt considerable anxiety concerning the Custom House at New-York. Mr. Barney has suffered no abatement of my confidence in his honor and integrity; and yet I am convinced that he has ceased to be master of his position. A man by the name of Bailey,  whom I am unconscious of ever having seen, or even having heard of, except in this connection, expects to be, and even now assumes to be, Collector de facto , while Mr. Barney remains nominally so. This Mr. Bailey as I understand having been summoned as a witness to testify before a committee of the House of Representatives which purposed investigating the affairs of the New-York Custom-House, took occasion to call on the Chairman in advance, and to endeavor to smother the investigation, saying among other things, that whatever might be developed, the President would take no action, and the committee would thereby be placed unpleasantly. The public interest can not fail to suffer in the hands of this irresponsible and unscrupulous man.  I propose sending Mr. Barney Minister to Portugal, as evidence of my continued confidence in him; and I further propose appointing---  Collector of the Customs at New-York. I wrote the draft of this letter two weeks ago, but delayed sending it for a reason which I will state when I see you. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, To the Secretary of War [ sic ]. Washington, Feby 12, 1864.
Dear Sir: Herewith is the resignation of Mr. McElroth [ sic ], as General Appraiser at New York. Send me a nomination for James Freeland as his successor unless you know some reason to the contrary. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN P.S. The recommendations of Mr. Freeland which seem good and ample are herewith. A. L.

To John A. Dix
Major Gen. Dix Executive Mansion, New-York Washington, Feb. 12, 1864.
If there is anywhere in your command, a man by the name of James Taylor under sentence of death for desertion, suspend execution till further order. A LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Secretary of Treasury: February 13, 1864.
My dear Sir: On coming up from the reception, I found your note of to-day. I am unwell, even now, and shall be worse this afternoon. If you please, we will have an interview Monday. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

Endorsement to John Hogan
February 13, 1864
Indorsed on the modifying Methodist order & sent to Rev John Hogan. ``As you see within, the Secretary of War modifies his order so as to exempt Missouri from it. Kentucky was never within it; nor, as I learn from the Secretary, was it ever intended for any more than a means of rallying the Methodist people in favor of the Union, in localities where the rebellion had disorganized and scattered them. Even in that view, I fear it is liable to some abuses, but it is not quite easy to withdraw it entirely, and at once. [``]Feb. 13. 1864. A. LINCOLN['']

To Horace Maynard
Hon. Horace Maynard Executive Mansion Nashville, Tenn. Washington, Feb. 13. 1864
Your letter of 2nd. received. Of course Gov. Johnson will proceed with re-organization as the exigencies of the case appear to him to require. I do not apprehend he will think it necessary to deviate from my views to any ruinous extent. On one hasty reading, I see no such deviation in his programme which you send A. LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. Samuel P. Hamilton

Allow this lady to pass to Nashville Tenn. to report to Gov. Johnson, and be heard by him & be disposed of as he shall decide. [Feby] 14, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Secretary of Treasury: February 15, 1864
My Dear Sir: I have just called to see you on the matter mentioned Saturday, and am pained to learn you are suffering too much to be out. I hope you will soon be relieved; meanwhile, have no uneasiness as to the thing to which I am alluding, as I shall do nothing in it until I shall [have] fully conferred with you. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Daniel E. Sickles
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Sickles: February 15. 1864.
I wish you to make a tour for me (principally for observation and information) by way of Cairo and New-Orleans, and returning by the Gulf and Ocean. All Military and Naval officers are to facilitate you with suitable transportation, and by conferring with you, and imparting, so far as they can, the information herein indicated, but you are not to command any of them. You will call at Memphis, Helena, Vicksburg, New-Orleans, Pensacola, Key-West, Charleston-Harbor, and such intermediate points as you may think important. Please ascertain at each place what is being done, if anything, for reconstruction---how the Amnesty proclamation works, if at all---what practical hitches, if any, there are about it---whether deserters come in from the enemy, what number has come in at each point since the Amnesty, and whether the ratio of their arrival is any greater since than before the Amnesty---what deserters report generally, and particularly, whether, and to what extent, the Amnesty is known within the rebel lines. Also learn what you can as to the colored people---how they get along as soldiers, as laborers in our service, on leased plantations, and as hired laborers with their old masters, if there be such cases. Also learn what you can about the colored people within the rebel lines. Also get any other information you may consider interesting, and, from time to time, send me what you may deem important to be known here at once, and be ready to make a general report on your return. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John M. Thayer
Gen. Thayer Washington, D.C., Fort Smith, Arkansas Feb. 15. 1864.
Yours received. Whatever of conflict there is between the convention and me is accidental, not designed, I having acted in ignorance that the convention would act. I yield to the convention, and have so notified Gen. Steele, who is master, and is to cut any knots which can not be untied. Correspond with him. A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Banks. February 16, 1864.
Mrs. J.Q.A. Fellows has come all the way here to make complaint about a certain dwelling house from which she says she has been ejected. Of course I can have no accurate knowledge of the merits of the case. I can do no more than ask you, which I cheerfully do, that you will have the case carefully investigated, and do justice in it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning W. Marshall Swayne

I indorse what is said above of Mr. Swayne. A. LINCOLN Feb. 16. 1864.

Endorsement Concerning William Yocum

William Yocum, within named, is hereby pardoned. February 16, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

To the House of Representatives
February 16, 1864.
To the House of Representatives, of the United States. In answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 8th instant requesting information touching the arrest of the United States Consul General to the British North American Provinces, and certain official communications respecting Canadian commerce, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, and the documents by which it was accompanied. [Washington, February 16, 1864.] [ABRAHAM LINCOLN.]

To the Senate and House of Representatives
February 16, 1864
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a Report from the Secretary of State, with the accompanying papers, relative to the claim on this Government of the owners of the French ship ``La Manche''; and recommend an appropriation for the satisfaction of the claim, pursuant to the award of the arbitrators. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 16th. February, 1864.

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington. Feb. 16. 1864.
Hon. W. H. Wallace, formerly of Washington Territory, and now of Idaho, says that Elwood Evans, Secretary of Washington T. was appointed at his---Mr. W's. recommendation, and that he has gone wholly over to the enemy, using the patronage to establish and uphold a paper to oppose & embarrass the Administration. 

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 16, 1864
Will the Sec. of War please oblige Judge Catron in the matter. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War, please see and hear Mr. Marshall, of St. Louis. A. LINCOLN Feb. 16, 1864.

To Edward Bates

I will thank the Attorney General to enquire into this case and report upon it. A. LINCOLN Feb 17. 1864 Let the pardon be made out. A. LINCOLN. March. 2, 1864.

To William M. Fishback
William Fishback Washington, D.C., Little Rock, Arkansas Feb. 17 1864
When I fixed a plan for an election in Arkansas I did it in ignorance that your convention was doing the same work. Since I learned the latter fact, I have been constantly trying to yield my plan to them. I have sent two letters to Gen. Steele, and three or four despatches to you and others, saying that he---Gen. Steele---must be master, but that it will probably be best for him to merely help the convention on it's own plan. Some single mind must be master, else there will be no agreement in anything, & Gen. Steele, commanding the Military, and being on the ground, is the best man to be that master. Even now, citizens are telegraphing me to postpone the election to a later day than either that fixed by the convention or by me. This discord must be silenced. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Please see and hear Mr. Gibbs, on the subject of the within letter of Gov. Andrew. A. LINCOLN Feb. 17, 1864 Hon. Sec. of War

To Frederick Steele
Major General Steele Executive Mansion, Little-Rock, Ark. Washington, Feb. 17, 1864.
The day fixed by the Convention for the election is probably the best, but you, on the ground, and in consultation with gentlemen there, are to decide. I should have fixed no day for an election ---presented no plan for reconstruction---had I known the convention was doing the same things. It is probably best that you merely assist the convention on their own plan, as to election day & all other matters. I have already written and telegraphed this half a dozen times. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Andrew
His Excellency. John A. Andrew Executive Mansion, Governor of Massachusetts Washington, February 18. 1864.
Yours of the 12th. was received yesterday. If I were to judge from the letter, without any external knowledge, I should suppose that all the colored people South of Washington were struggling to get to Massachusetts; that Massachusetts was anxious to receive and retain the whole of them as permanent citizens; and that the United States Government here was interposing and preventing this. But I suppose these are neither really the facts, nor meant to be asserted as true by you. Coming down to what I suppose to be the real facts, you are engaged in trying to raise colored troops for the U.S. and wish to take recruits from Virginia, through Washington, to Massachusetts for that object; and the loyal Governor of Virginia, also trying to raise troops for us, objects to your taking his material away; while we, having to care for all, and being responsible alike to all, have to do as much for him, as we would have to do for you, if he was, by our authority, taking men from Massachusetts to fill up Virginia regiments. No more than this has been intended by me; nor, as I think, by the Secretary of War. There may have been some abuses of this, as a rule, which, if known, should be prevented in future. If, however, it be really true that Massachusetts wishes to afford a permanent home within her borders, for all, or even a large number of colored persons who will come to her, I shall be only too glad to know it. It would give relief in a very difficult point; and I would not for a moment hinder from going, any person who is free by the terms of the proclamation or any of the acts of Congress.

Memorandum Concerning John A. Andrew
[c. February 18, 1864?]
I have not yet my letter ready for Gov. Andrew. A. L.

Proclamation Concerning Blockade
February 18, 1864
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, by my Proclamation of the nineteenth of April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, the ports of the States of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas, were, for reasons therein set forth, placed under blockade; and whereas, the port of Brownsville in the district of Brazos Santiago in the State of Texas, has since been blockaded, but as the blockade of said port may now be safely relaxed with advantage to the interests of commerce: Now, therefore, be it known that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, pursuant to the authority in me vested by the fifth section of the act of Congress approved on the 13th. of July 1861, entitled, ``an act further to provide for the collection of duties on imports, and for other purposes,'' do hereby declare that the blockade of the said port of Brownsville shall so far cease and determine from and after this date, that commercial intercourse with said port, except as to persons, things and information hereinafter specified, may, from this date, be carried on, subject to the laws of the United States, to the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and until the rebellion shall have been suppressed, to such orders as may be promulgated by the General Commanding the Department, or by an officer duly authorized by him and commanding at said port. This Proclamation does not authorize or allow the shipment or conveyance of persons in or intending to enter the service of the insurgents, or of things or information intended for their use, or for their aid or comfort, nor except upon the permission of the Secretary of War or of some officer duly authorized by him, of the following prohibited articles, namely---cannon, mortars, firearms, pistols, bombs, grenades, powder, saltpetre, sulphur, balls, bullets, pikes, swords, boardingcaps, (always excepting the quantity of the said articles which may be necessary for the defence of the ship and those who compose the crew) saddles, bridles, cartridge-bag material, percussion and other caps, clothing adapted for uniforms, sail cloth of all kinds, hemp and cordage, intoxicating drinks, other than beer and light native wines. To vessels clearing from foreign ports, and destined to the port of Brownsville, opened by this Proclamation, licenses will be granted by Consuls of the United States upon satisfactory evidence that the vessels so licensed will convey no persons, property or information excepted or prohibited above, either to or from the said port; which licenses shall be exhibited to the Collector of said port immediately on arrival, and if required, to any officer in charge of the blockade; and on leaving said port, every vessel will be required to have a clearance from the Collector of the Customs, according to law, showing no violation of the conditions of the license. Any violations of said conditions will involve the forfeiture and condemnation of the vessel and cargo, and the exclusion of all parties concerned from any further privilege of entering the United States during the war for any purpose whatever. In all respects, except as herein specified, the existing blockade remains in full force and effect as hitherto established and maintained, nor is it relaxed by this Proclamation except in regard to the port to which relaxation is or has been expressely applied. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington, this eighteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-eighth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To A. Robinson
A. Robinson: Executive Mansion Leroy, N.Y. Washington, Feb. 18. 1864
The law only obliges us to keep accounts with States, or, at most, Congressional Districts; and it would overwhelm us to attempt in counties, cities and towns. Nevertheless we do what we can to oblige in particular cases. In this view I send your despatch to the Provost-Marshall-General, asking him to do the best he can for you. A. LINCOLN

To George S. Blake
Com. Geo. S. Blake. Executive Mansion. Comdt. Naval Academy 19 Feb. 1864.
Newport, R.I. I desire the case of Midshipman C. Lyon re-examined and if not clearly inconsistent I shall be much obliged to have the recommendation changed. A. LINCOLN.

To Roscoe Conkling
Hon. R. Conkling Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, February 19, 1864.
I have just received the letter of yourself and others in relation to Caleb Lyon. I understood he was once a member of Congress; his nomination to some respectable office was repeatedly urged upon me certainly by two, if not three Senators of the highest standing; and your letter contains the first imputation I ever heard against his moral character. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 19, 1864
The writer of this, Hon. Mr. Nelson of Tennessee, is a man of mark, and one whom I would like to have obliged. I am in favor of discharging his son, with pledge that he shall not be conscripted, upon his taking the oath of December 8. A. LINCOLN. February 19, 1864.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. Feb. 20. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Secretary of Treasury: February 20, 1864.
My Dear Sir: Herewith I return the affidavit you handed me. In glancing over it I do not perceive anything necessarily inconsistent with the practice of detectives, and others, engaged in the business of ``rascal-catching;'' but a closer consideration might show it. It seems to me that August , the month within which the affiant fixes his first interview with Hanscomb, was really before Hanscomb left Boston and came to New York. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I specially request that you will see Judge Cooper and allow him to take his brother home with him. A. LINCOLN Feb. 20. 1864 Hon. Sec. of War. Feb. 20. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Warren Jordan
Warren Jordan Washington, D.C., Nashville, Tenn. February 21 [20?] 1864
In county elections you had better stand by Gov. Johnson's plan. Otherwise you will have conflict and confusion. I have seen his plan. A. LINCOLN

To George S. Boutwell

Thanks for the privilege of reading. Feb. 22. 1864. A. L.

To John Brough
His Excellency Executive Mansion, Governor Brough Washington, Columbus, Ohio Feb. 22. 1864.
As you request, Clinton Fuller, charged as a deserter, is pardoned. A. LINCOLN

To William P. Dole

Commissioner of Indian Affairs, please examine and report upon this case. A. LINCOLN Feb. 22. 1864

To Joseph Holt

This is a peculiar case, & I will thank the Judge Advocate General to have made for me a good abstract of the evidence Feb. 22. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Loan
Hon. B. Loan War Department Dear Sir: Washington, Feb. 22, 1864
At your instance I directed a part of the advertising for this Department to be done in the St. Joseph Tribune. I have just been informed that the Tribune openly avows it's determination that in no event will it support the re-election of the President. As you probably know, please inform me whether this is true. The President's wish is that no objection shall be made to any paper respectfully expressing it's preference for the nomination of any candidate; but that the patronage of the government shall be given to none which engages in cultivating a sentiment to oppose the election of any when he shall have been fairly nominated by the regular Union National Convention.

Remarks at Opening of Patent Office Fair
February 22, 1864
Loud calls being made then for the President, Mr. Lincoln stepped forward, and said that he appeared before the audience to apologize for not speaking rather than to speak. He thought that the Committee had practiced a little fraud on him, for they did not intimate when they came to see him in the morning, that they expected him to speak, therefore he had come before the audience totally unprepared to say anything; that was taking one at great disadvantage after the eloquent speech of Mr. Chittenden and the poem of Mr. French. There was great objection to his saying anything, for necessarily, in consequence of his position, everything went into print. [Laughter and applause.] If he made any mistake it might do both himself and the nation harm. [Applause.] It was very difficult to say sensible things. [Laughter.] He therefore hoped that the audience would excuse him after expressing his desire that the charitable enterprise in which we were engaged might be abundantly successful. [Applause.]

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Mo Feb. 22 1864
Col. Sanderson will be ordered to you to-day---a mere omission that it was not done before. The other questions in your despatch I am not yet prepared to answer A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
February 22, 1864
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress the copy of a correspondence which has recently taken place between Her Britannic Majesty's Minister accredited to this Government and the Secretary of State, in order that the expediency of sanctioning the acceptance, by the Master of the American schooner ``Highlander,'' of a present of a watch which the Lords of the Committee of Her Majesty's Privy Council for Trade propose to present to him in recognition of services rendered by him to the crew of the British vessel ``Pearl,'' may be taken into consideration. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 22d. Feby. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I believe it was agreed some days ago that Gen. Sigel should be assigned to West-Virginia. Feb. 22. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
[c. February 22, 1864]
I propose that the husband's parole be enlarged so that he may occasionally visit Washington.

To Frederick Steele
Major General Steele Washington, D.C., Little Rock, Arkansas Feb. 22. 1864
Yours of yesterday received. Your conferrence with citizens approved. Let the election be on the fourteenth of March, as they agreed. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
February 22, 1864
These extracts from letters of Admiral Foote show Commander Stembel to be a very meritorious officer; unless the Sec. of the Navy knows some reason to the contrary, I propose that a vote of thanks be asked of Congress for him. If there be nothing in the way, please send me the papers to sign. A. LINCOLN Feb. 22, 1864.

To Montgomery Blair
February 23, 1864
Post-Master General please see the bearer Mr. Miller, now of Washington Territory, and son of an old friend of mine in Illinois, who originally went from Kentucky. He comes well recommended by his neighbors on the Pacific. A. LINCOLN Feb. 23. 1864

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Sec. of Treasury Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Feb. 23. 1864.
Yours of yesterday in relation to the paper issued by Senator Pomeroy was duly received; and I write this note merely to say I will answer a little more fully when I can find the leisure to do so. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ozias M. Hatch
`` Cypher '' Hon. O. M. Hatch Executive Mansion, Springfield, Ills. Washington, Feb. 23, 1864.
I would be very glad, but really I do not perceive how I can reconcile the difficulty you mention. Will try to write you soon. A. LINCOLN

To Willie Smith
Executive Mansion, Washington, Master Willie Smith: February 23, 1864.
Your friend, Leroy C. Driggs, tells me you are a very earnest friend of mine, for which please allow me to thank you. You and those of your age are to take charge of this country when we older ones shall have gone; and I am glad to learn that you already take so lively an interest in what just now so deeply concerns us. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning John Dickson
February 24, 1864
Owing to Mr. Dickson being a respectable citizen of Illinois, I suppose it was, that this claim or case, was brought to my notice even before the receipt of the corn was finally refused. I only remember generally that my impression was that Mr. D. was being hardly dealt with. I think Major Belger himself so represented to me. I can only say now that I wish full and speedy justice to be done him. A. LINCOLN Feb. 24. 1864

Pass for Simon Cameron
Executive Mansion, Washington, February 24, 1864.
Pass Hon. Simon Cameron and friends to Fortress Monroe and return. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, Feb. 24. 1864.
I will be personally obliged if the appointment of an Additional PayMaster shall be given to J. R. Freese, of New-Jersey. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph K. Barnes
February 25, 1864
Surgeon General please have an examination made of Michael Mullins, Co. C Harris Light Cavalry, now at Army Square Hospital, with reference to his discharge for disability. Feb. 25. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
February 25, 1864
Major General Butler please see and hear Judge Pitts of Eastern Shore of Virginia. He wishes to do right, but meets some difficulty at a point which it is probable you can obviate. A. LINCOLN Feb. 25. 1864

To Salmon P. Chase

Will see Mr. Bailey at 7. this evening Feb. 25, 1864 A.L.

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 25, 1864
Let John Hatton, within alluded to, and in prison at Alton, be discharged.

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 25, 1864
I am told there are one hundred colored men at Alexandria, Va. who wish to go to Massachusetts; with their own consent and the consent of Gov. Pierpoint, let them go. A. LINCOLN Feby 25. 1864.

To Frederick Steele
Major General Steele Washington, D.C., Little Rock, Arkansas. Feb. 25 1864
General Sickles is not going to Arkansas. He probably will make a tour down the Mississippi, and home by the Gulf and ocean, but he will not meddle in your affairs. At one time I did intend to have him call on you and explain more fully than I could do, by letter or Telegraph, so as to avoid a difficulty coming of my having made a plan here while the convention made one there, for re-organizing Arkansas, but even his doing that, has been given up for more than two weeks. Please show this to Gov. Murphy to save me Telegraphing him. A. LINCOLN

To Telegraph Office
Executive Mansion, Telegraph Office Washington, Feb. 25, 1864.
Please show Gov. Johnson my despatch to some at at [ sic ] Nashville, Tenn. saying the oath prescribed by Gov. Johnson was to be followed---& let the Gov. have a copy A. LINCOLN

To Henry D. Terry
Commanding Officer, Executive Mansion, Johnson's Island: Washington, February 25, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of John Marrs until further orders and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN Major Eckert: Please send the above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY, Private Secretary.

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, Feb. 26, 1864.
I can not remember at whose request it was that I gave the pass to Mrs. Bulkley. Of course detain her, if the evidence of her being a spy is strong against her. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major-General Butler, Executive Mansion, Fort Monroe: Washington, February 26, 1864.
If it has not already been done, suspend execution of death sentence of William K. Stearns, Tenth New Hampshire Volunteers, until further orders and forward record. A. LINCOLN Major Eckert: Please send the above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY, Private Secretary.

Endorsements Concerning Robert T. Van Horn
Submitted to Gen. Rosecrans. A. LINCOLN Feb. 26. 1864
As the Sec. of War does not approve the above submission, let the paper be filed. A. LINCOLN March 2. 1864

To William Jayne
Hon. W. Jayne Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, February 26, 1864.
I dislike to make changes in office so long as they can be avoided. It multiplies my trouble and harrassment immensely. I dislike to make two appointments when one will do. Send me the name of some man, not the present Marshal, and I will nominate him to be Provost-Marshal for Dakota. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Benjamin F. Butler
February 26, 1864.
Col Shaffer has been conversing with me and I have said to him that Genl Butler has my confidence in his ability and fidelity to the country and to me and I wish him sustained in all his efforts in our great common cause subject only to the same supervisions which the Government must take with all Department Commanders A. LINCOLN Feby 26. 1864

Order Commuting Sentence of Deserters
General Orders, No. 76. War Department, Adjutant-General's Offi Washington, February 26, 1864.
Sentence of Deserters . The President directs that the sentences of all deserters, who have been condemned by Court Martial to death, and that have not been otherwise acted upon by him, be mitigated to imprisonment during the war, at the Dry Tortugas, Florida, where they will be sent under suitable guards by orders from army commanders. The Commanding Generals, who have power to act on proceedings of Courts Martial in such cases, are authorized in special cases to restore to duty deserters under sentence, when in their judgment the service will be thereby benefited. Copies of all orders issued under the foregoing instructions will be immediately forwarded to the Adjutant General and to the Judge Advocate General. By order of the Secretary of War: E. D. TOWNSEND, Assistant Adjutant-General.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Feb. 26, 1864.
Allow Howard D. O'Neill, now a prisoner at Old Capitol Prison to take the oath of Dec. 8. and be discharged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John W. Davidson
Gen. Davidson Washington, D.C., Cairo, Ills. Feb. 27. 1864
Whether you shall visit Washington I must submit to the General-in-chief A. LINCOLN

To Edward H. East
Hon E. H. East Washington, Secretary of State, Nashville, Tenn.: February 27, 1864.
Your telegram of the 26th instant asking for a copy of my dispatch to Warren Jordan, esq., at Nashville Press office, has just been referred to me by Governor Johnson. In my reply to Mr. Jordan, which was brief and hurried, I intended to say that in the county and State elections of Tennessee the oath prescribed in the proclamation of Governor Johnson on the 26th of January, 1864, ordering an election in Tennessee on the first Saturday in March next, is entirely satisfactory to me as a test of loyalty of all persons proposing or offering to vote in said elections, and coming from him would better be observed and followed. There is no conflict between the oath of amnesty in my proclamation of 8th December, 1863, and that prescribed by Governor Johnson in his proclamation of the 26th ultimo. No person who has taken the oath of amnesty of 8th December, 1863, and obtained a pardon thereby, and who intends to observe the same in good faith, should have any objection to taking that prescribed by Governor Johnson as a test of loyalty. I have seen and examined Governor Johnson's proclamation, and am entirely satisfied with his plan, which is to restore the State government and place it under the control of citizens truly loyal to the Government of the United States. A. LINCOLN. Please send above for Governor Johnson.  A.L.

Memorandum: Appointment of George W. Pyle

I specially desire this case to be called to my attention when we act upon this class of cases. A. LINCOLN Feb. 27. 1864 West-Point.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War. Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Feb. 27, 1864.
You ask some instruction from me in relation to the Report of Special Commission,  constituted by an order of the War Department, dated Dec. 5 1863, ``to revise the enrolment & quotas of the City & State of New-York, & report whether there be any & what errors, or irregularities therein, and what corrections, if any should be made.'' [The aspect of this case, as presented by this order and report, is entirely new to me, I having personally known nothing of the order, commission, or report, until now presented for my consideration.] In the correspondence between the Governor of New-York and myself last summer, I understood him to complain that the enrolments in several of the Districts of that State had been neither accurately nor honestly made; and, in view of this I for the draft then immediately ensuing, ordered an arbitrary reduction of the quotas in several of the Districts, wherein they seemed too large, [for the draft then immediately ensuing,] and said ``After this drawing these four Districts and also the seventeenth and twentyninth shall be carefully re-enrolled, and, if you please, agents of yours may witness every step of the process'' In a subsequent letter I believe some additional Districts were put into the list of those to be re-enrolled. My idea was to do the work over, according to the law, in presence of the complaining party, and thereby to correct anything which might be found amiss. The Commission, whose work I am considering, seem to have proceeded upon a totally different idea. Not going forth to find men at all, they have proceeded altogether upon paper examinations and mental processes. One of their conclusions, as I understand is, that as the law stands, and attempting to follow it, the e[n]rolling officers could not have made the enrolments much more accurately than they did. The report, on this point, might be useful to Congress. The Commission conclude that the quotas for the draft should be based upon entire population, and they proceed upon this basis to give a table for the State of New-York, in which some districts are reduced, and some increased. For the now ensuing draft, let the quotas stand as made by the enrolling officers, in the Districts wherein this table requires them to be increased; and let them be reduced according to the table, in the others. This to be no precedent for subsequent action; but as I think this report may, on full consideration, be shown to have much that is valuable in it, I suggest that such consideration be given it; and that it be especially considered whether it's suggestions can be conformed to without an alternation of the law. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George H. Thomas
Maj. Gen. George H. Thomas, Executive Mansion, Department of Cumberland: Washington, February 27, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of F. W. Lanferseick, first  corporal, Company D, One hundred and sixth Regiment Ohio Volunteers, until further orders, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send the above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY, Private Secretary.

To Lorenzo Thomas
Gen. L. Thomas Washington, D.C., Louisville, Ky. Feb. 28. 1864.
I see your despatch of yesterday to the Sec. of War. I wish you would go to the Mississippi river at once, and take hold of, and be master in, the contraband and leasing business. You understand it better than any other man does. Mr. Mellen's  system doubtless is well intended; but, from what I hear, I fear that, if persisted in, it would fall dead within it's own entangling details. Go there, and be the judge. A Mr. Lewis  will probably follow you with something from me on this subject, but do not wait for him. Nor is this to induce you to violate or neglect any Military order from the General-in-Chief, or Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN

To George Bancroft
Hon. George Bancroft Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Feb. 29. 1864.
Herewith is the copy of the manuscript which you did me the honor to request. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Secretary of the Treasury Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, February 29. 1864.
I would have taken time to answer yours of the 22nd. sooner, only that I did not suppose any evil could result from the delay, especially as, by a note, I promptly acknowled[ged] the receipt of yours, and promised a fuller answer. Now, on consideration, I find there is really very little to say. My knowledge of Mr. Pomeroy's letter having been made public came to me only the day you wrote; but I had, in spite of myself, known of it's existence several days before. I have not yet read it, and I think I shall not. I was not shocked, or surprised by the appearance of the letter, because I had had knowledge of Mr. Pomeroy's Committee, and of secret issues which I supposed came from it, and of secret agents who I supposed were sent out by it, for several weeks. I have known just as little of these things as my own friends have allowed me to know. They bring the documents to me, but I do not read them---they tell me what they think fit to tell me, but I do not inquire for more. I fully concur with you that neither of us can be justly held responsible for what our respective friends may do without our instigation or countenance; and I assure you, as you have assured me, that no assault has been made upon you by my instigation, or with my countenance. Whether you shall remain at the head of the Treasury Department is a question which I will not allow myself to consider from any stand-point other than my judgment of the public service; and, in that view, I do not perceive occasion for a change. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major General Dix Executive Mansion, New-York Washington, Feb. 29, 1864.
Do you advise that John McKee, now in Military confinement at Fort-Lafayette, be turned over to the Civil authorities? A. LINCOLN

Draft of Order Concerning Samuel L. Casey
Washington D.C. Feb 29 1864
Whereas Samuel L Casey of Kentucky has made the following statements to me that John Bishop John Ray, S. Baker S. C. Floyd Thos M Watts and John B Shepard of Louisiana Thos. S. Halloway and Joseph Turnage of Arkansas---William Butler of Illinois and him self and Peter Casey all Loyal men are the owners of a large amount of cotton on the Red River and its tributaries. Some of the cotton is with in our Military lines and a good deal within our trading lines, but all will have to pass into the Red River to reach a market or a place of safety and as orders have been given by the commander of the confederate forces of that Department to destroy all the cotton should the Federal army attempt to occupy that part of the country. believing that it would be a public injury to have the cotton destroyed, and having confidence in the integrity and ability of William Butler of Illinois and Samuel L Casey of Kentucky they are hereby authorised to take charge of---by the consent of the owners---and to convey to market or a place of safety said cotton under the regulations governing trade in the insurrectionary states adopted 23 of January 1864 and may sell the same receiving payment in full except the fees and taxes charged by the Treasury Department and all Military and Naval commanders are hereby directed to give all Steam Boats in charge of said Butler or Casey all necessary protection to and from their places of destination

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: February 29, 1864
In answer to the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 26th. instant, I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of War relative to the re-enlistment of Veteran Volunteers. Washington, ABRAHAM LINCOLN February 29th. 1864.

To Frederick F. Low
Gov. Lowe. Executive Mansion, Washington, My dear Sir Feb. 29, 1864.
Judge Hughes of the Claims Court here, has a Step-Son--- William B. Barnes,---a private in a California regiment, and now at Benicia Barracks, whom he wishes appointed a Captain in his regiment or some other if possible; and I shall be personally obliged if you will make the appointment. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February , 1864
I communicate to the Senate herewith, for its constitutional action thereon, the articles of agreement and convention made and concluded at the city of Washington, on the 25th day of the present month, by and between William P. Dole as commissioner on the part of the United States, and the duly authorized delegates of the Swan Creek and Black River Chippewas, and the Munsees or Christian Indians in Kansas. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Excecutive Mansion, February---, 1864.

To Cadwallader C. Washburn
Maj. Genl. C. C. Washburne La Crosse, Wis.
Your leave is extended twenty days. A. LINCOLN Feb. 29. 1864

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 1, 1864.
Please send me a nomination for John C. Smart to be Marshal for Dakota Territory in place of George M. Pinney, transferred to be Provost-Marshal. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James G. Benton

I do not sign the above in the form written; and yet if it can be conveniently done I shall be obliged. A. LINCOLN March 1. 1864

Memorandum: Appointment of Henry P. Torsey
[c. March 1, 1864]
The Vice-President says I promised to make this appointment, & I suppose I must make it.

Memorandum Concerning Charles Garretson
[c. March 1, 1864]
A York Union League says G. is `` ultra copperhead '' & has no sympathy with the Government. Appoints under him, ``bitter enemies''---Calvin B. Rhoads, George L. Jacoby, William Garretson, Martin Quinn & Joseph Ruby. B Hon. Thadeus Stevens says he is well acquainted with G. & subordinates--- that he has always been disloyal since the war began. C Union League says G's bondsmen are copperheads---that he, G, left the State rather than vote for Curtin---and was outspoken, loud-mouthed copperhead---had made money out of his position. D H. H. Jacobs says, G's partizans knocked down and dragged to prison, soldiers for cheering for Lincoln and Curtin, and that Calvin Rhoads and Martin Quinn were Marshals & participated in it---that George L. Jacoby painted carricatures of L & C, that William Garretson cheered Early's men when they marched through York---that G. very well knew these men & got his bondsmen by promising to take these men in his employ, that G's own language proves him as disloyal as any man can be. E Resolutions of Copperhead conventions not naming G. F. Mr. Edmunds letter transmitting papers.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War--- Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March. 1, 1864.
A poor widow, by the name of Baird, has a son in the Army, that for some offence has been sentenced to serve a long time without pay, or at most, with very little pay. I do not like this punishment of withholding pay---it falls so very hard upon poor families. After he has been serving in this way for several months, at the tearful appeal of the poor Mother, I made a direction that he be allowed to enlist for a new term, on the same conditions as others. She now comes, and says she can not get it acted upon. Please do it. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Lorenzo Thomas
Executive Mansion, Genl. L. Thomas: Washington, March 1, 1864.
This introduces Mr. Lewis, mentioned in my despatch sent you at Louisville some days ago. I have but little personal acquaintance with him; but he has the confidence of several members of Congress here who seem to know him well. He hopes to be useful, without charge to the government, in facilitating the introduction of the free-labor system on the Mississippi plantations. He is acquainted with, and has access to, many of the planters who wish to adopt this system. He will show you two letters of mine on this subject, one somewhat general, and the other relating to named persons. They are not different in principle. He will also show you some suggestions coming from some of the planters themselves. I desire that all I promise in these letters so far as practicable, may be, in good faith, carried out, and that suggestions from the planters may be heard, and adopted, so far as they may not contravene the principles stated, nor justice, or fairness to the laborers. I do not herein intend to over-rule your own mature judgment on any point. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

If Attorney-General concurs, let a pardon be made out in this case. March. 2. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please send nomination according to the within March 2. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Daniel Breck
Judge D. Breck Executive Mansion Richmond, Ky Washington, March 2, 1864
I have directed the officer at Knoxville to allow Mrs. Rumsey  to come to you. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine and report on this case. March 2. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade: Washington, March 2, 1864.
Suspend execution of the death sentence of James Whelan, One hundred and sixteenth Pennsylvania Volunteers, until further orders and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert: Please send the above dispatch. JNO. G. NICOLAY, Private Secretary.

To the New England Kitchen
Executive Mansion, March 2, 1864.
To the New-England Kitchen, connected with the Brooklyn Sanitary Fair: It is represented to me that my autograph, appended to this note, may somewhat augment, through the means you are so patriotically employing, the contributions for the benefit of our gallant and suffering soldiers, and for such an object I am glad to give it. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Davis Tillson
Officer in Command Executive Mansion, at Knoxville, Tenn. Washington, March 2. 1864.
Allow Mrs. Anne Maria Rumsey, with her six daughters, to go to her father, Judge Breck, at Richmond, Kentucky. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 3. 1864.
Please send me a nomination for James S. Emory of Kansas to be District Attorney for Kansas. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the Secretary of War concurs, let Coln E W Serrell visit Washington to examine Pontoons. A. LINCOLN. March 3d. 1864.

To Frederick Steele
Major General Steele Washington, D.C., Little-Rock, Ark. March 3. 1864
Yours including Address to People of Arkansas, is received. I approve the address and thank you for it. Yours in relation to Willard M. Randolph also received.  Let him take the oath of Dec. 8 and go to work for the new constitution, and on your notifying me of it, I will immediately issue the special pardon for him. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph K. Barnes

If the Surgeon General has the means will he please give the information sought in this letter. A. LINCOLN March 4, 1864

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, March 4, 1864.
Admiral Dahlgren is here, and of course is very anxious about his son. Please send me at once all you know, or can learn of his fate. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Secretary of the Treasury. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 4, 1864.
In consequence of a call Mr. Villard makes on, me, having a note from you to him, I am induced to say I have no wish for the publication of the correspondence between yourself and me in relation to the Pomeroy Circular---in fact, rather prefer to avoid an unnecessary exhibition---yet you are at liberty, without in the least offending me, to allow the publication, if you choose. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Judge Advocate General please report on this case if the record is accessable. A. LINCOLN March 4. 1864
Sentence approved A. LINCOLN April 21. 1864

Memorandum about Churches
March 4, 1864
I have written before, and now repeat, the United States Government must not undertake to run the churches. When an individual in a church or out of it becomes dangerous to the public interest he must be checked, but the churches as such must take care of themselves. It will not do for the United States to appoint trustees, supervisors, or other agents for the churches. I add if the military have military need of the church building, let them keep it; otherwise let them get out of it, and leave it and its owners alone except for causes that justify the arrest of any one. A. LINCOLN.

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion Washington, Major General Rosecrans March 4. 1864
I shall be obliged if you will examine the question, and give me your opinion whether, on the whole, it would be advantageous to our military operations for the United States to furnish iron for completing the South West Branch of the Pacific Railroad, all, or any part of the way, from Rolla to Springfield Missouri, so fast as the Company shall do all the other work for the completion; and to receive pay for said iron, in transportation upon said newly made part of said road. It is understood that the Company will, on these terms, speedily put the road into working order. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I send this over as a reminder in relation to allowing the ``Thomas Colyer'' to run between here & Mount-Vernon. A. LINCOLN March 4, 1864

To John P. Usher

Send nomination. A. LINCOLN March. 4. 1864

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 5. 1864.
Send me a nomination for Robert Sherman, as Marshal for the District of Rhode-Island. [A. LINCOLN]

To Edward Bates

Gov. Johnson. Attorney-General please make out pardons in these cases in the forms Gov. Johnson [will] request. March 7, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates
March 7, 1864
The name is Willard M. Randolph. He was an attorney for the Rebel Government, but now taking the oath and going to work to carry the free State Constitution at the election on the 14th. I wish a special pardon for him. Please send me the document. March 7, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe Washington, March 7. 1864.
Gen. Meade has Richmond Sentinel, saying that Col. Dahlgren was killed, and ninety of his men captured at King & Queen C. H. When did Kilpatrick's informant last see Col. Dahlgren? A. LINCOLN

To John A. J. Creswell
Hon. John A. J. Creswell Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 7, 1864.
I am very anxious for emancipation to be effected in Maryland in some substantial form. I think it probable that my expressions of a preference for gradual over immediate emancipation, are misunderstood. I had thought the gradual would produce less confusion, and destitution, and therefore would be more satisfactory; but if those who are better acquainted with the subject, and are more deeply interested in it, prefer the immediate , most certainly I have no objection to their judgment prevailing. My wish is that all who are for emancipation in any form , shall co-operate, all treating all respectfully, and all adopting and acting upon the major opinion, when fairly ascertained. What I have dreaded is the danger that by jealousies, rivalries, and consequent ill-blood---driving one another out of meetings and conventions---perchance from the polls---the friends of emancipation themselves may divide, and lose the measure altogether. I wish this letter to not be made public; but no man representing me as I herein represent myself, will be in any danger of contradiction by me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt
Judge Advocate General please examine & report on this case at once. A. LINCOLN March 7, 1864
Sentence approved, and execution fixed for Friday, April 22nd 1864. A. LINCOLN April 14, 1864 Sentence commuted to imprisonment in the Penitentiary at hard labor for ten years. A. LINCOLN Jan. 25, 1865

To William A. Merriwether
U.S. Marshal Executive Mansion, at Louisville Ky Washington, March 7, 1864.
Until further orders, suspend sale of property and further proceedings in cases of the United States against Dr John B English and S. S. English, et al. sureties for John L Hill Also same against same sureties for Thomas A. Ireland A. LINCOLN. Major Eckert Please send the above dispatch JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv: Sec

Order Designating Starting Point of Union Pacific Railroad
March 7, 1864
In pursuance of the provisions of Section 14, of the Act of Congress entitled ``An Act to aid in the construction of a Rail Road and Telegraph Line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the Government the use of the same for Postal,---Military, and other purposes,'' Approved July 1st. 1862, authorizing and directing the President of the United States, to fix the point on the Western boundary of the State of Iowa, from which the Union Pacific Rail Road Company is by said section authorized and required to construct a single line of Rail Road, and Telegraph, upon the most direct and practicable route, subject to the approval of the President of the United States, so as to form a connection with the lines of said Company, at some point on the one hundre[d]th meridian of longitude in said section named: I, Abraham Lincoln President of the United States do, upon the application of the said Company, designate and establish such first above named point, on the Western boundary of the State of Iowa, east of, and opposite to the East line of Section 10, in Township 15, North, of Range 13, East of the sixth principle meridian, in the Territory of Nebraska Done at the City of Washington this, seventh, day of March, in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and sixty four ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order in Regard to Export of Tobacco
Executive Mansion Washington, 7th March, 1864.
Whereas by an Executive Order on the 10th of November last, permission was given to export certain tobacco belonging to the French Government from insurgent territory, which tobacco was supposed to have been purchased and paid for prior to the 4th March 1861; but whereas, it was subsequently, ascertained that a part at least, of the said tobacco had been purchased subsequently to that date, which fact made it necessary to suspend the carrying into effect of the said order; but whereas, pursuant to mutual explanations a satisfactory understanding on the subject has now been reached, it is directed that the Order aforesaid may be carried into effect; it being understood that the quantity of French tobacco so to be exported, shall not exceed Seven thousand hogsheads, and that it is the same tobacco respecting the exportation of which application was originally made by the French Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To George D. Ramsay
Executive Mansion, Gen. Ramsay. Washington, March 7, 1864.
Will a number of the Absterdam Shells, or projectiles, be placed in the hands of the troops for trial, as recommended by Capt. Benton, in his report of March 3rd? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 7, 1864.
I think it is but fair that Quarter-Master-General Allen, should be allowed to fix the rate of rent of Col. Mondays property now used by the Government at Mound-City; and I shall be glad if the Sec. of War will direct him to do so. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 7, 1864.
It is represented to me that General David B. Birney, who is nominated for a Major General to take rank from June 22nd. 1863, is really entitled, if at all, to take rank from May 3. 1863, for meritorious conduct at Chancellorsville. It is also represented that to make the desired change will not give Gen. Birney rank over any one who now ranks him. I shall be glad to withdraw his present nomination and make the change, if the above is a true and a full statement of the facts. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 7, 1864.
The bearer is Gov. Hall of Missouri, whom I have much pleasure in introducing to you. I shall be glad for yourself and Col. Fry to give him a full hearing on Missouri matters. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 7, 1864
Sec. of War, please have a full report of this case sent me. Hon. Mr. Bailey says this man went home last fall on the loyal side, and actually fought for the previlege. A. LINCOLN March 7. 1864.

To Queen Victoria
March 7, 1864
Abraham Lincoln President of the United States of America. To Her Majesty Victoria Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland &c. &c. &c. Sendeth Greeting: Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty addressed to me on the 30th. day of January last, informing me that Her Royal Highness, the Princess of Wales, Daughter of His Majesty, the King of Denmark, Consort of Your Majesty's well-beloved son, His Royal Highness Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, Duke of Saxony, Prince of Saxe Coburg and Gotha &c. &c. was safely delivered of a Prince on the 8th. of that month. I pray Your Majesty to accept my cordial congratulations upon this event, and to be assured that I take a lively interest in all that concerns the happiness and prosperity of Your Royal House, and so I recommend Your Majesty and Your Royal Family to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend Washington 7th. March, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

Memorandum:Appointment of William F. Allen
[March 8, 1864]
West-Point. William F. Allen---Son of Col. who lost his life off, Hatteras--- New-Jersey.

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, March 9. 1864.
What are the facts about the imprisonment of Joseph A. Bilisoly? A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Judge Advocate General please examine and report on this case. March 9, 1864. A. LINCOLN
Pardon, for the unexpired part of the imprisonment. March 29. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, March 9, 1864.
New York City votes 9,500 majority for allowing soldiers to vote, and the rest of the State nearly all on the same side. Tell the soldiers. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate
Executive Mansion To the Senate of the United States: March 9th. 1864.
In compliance with a resolution of the Senate, of the 1st. instant, respecting the points of commencement of the Union Pacific Railroad, on the 100th. degree of West Longitude, and of the branch road, from the Western boundary of Iowa, to the said 100th. degree of Longitude, I transmit the accompanying report from the Secretary of the Interior, containing the information called for. I deem it proper to add that, on the 17th day of November last, an executive order was made upon this subject, and delivered to the Vice President of the Union Pacific Rail Road Company, which fixed the point, on the western boundary of the State of Iowa from which the Company should construct their Branch-Road to the 100th. degree of West Longitude, and declared it to be within the limits of the township, in Iowa, opposite the town of Omaha in Nebraska. Since then the Company has represented to me, that, upon actual surveys made, it has determined upon the precise point of departure of their said Branch-R road from the Missouri river, and located the same as described in the accompanying report of the Secretary of the Interior, which point is within the limits designated in the order of November last; and inasmuch as that order is not of record in any of the Executive Departments, and the Company having desired a more definite one, I have made the order, of which a copy is herewith, and caused the same to be filed in the Department of the Interior. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Speech to Ulysses S. Grant
General Grant [March 9, 1864]
The nation's appreciation of what you have done, and it's reliance upon you for what remains to do, in the existing great struggle, are now presented with this commission, constituting you Lieutenant General in the Army of the United States. With this high honor devolves upon you also, a corresponding responsibility. As the country herein trusts you, so, under God, it will sustain you. I scarcely need to add that with what I here speak for the nation goes my own hearty personal concurrence.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Gen. Grant Executive Mansion Army of Potomac Washington, March 10. 1864
Mrs. L. invites yourself and Gen. Meade to dine with us Saturday evening. Please notify him, and answer whether you can be with us at that time. A. LINCOLN

List of Candidates for West Point
[c. March 10, 1864]
John D. C. Hoskins.--- Has served in this war---Gen. Grant's boy.  David Dick Johnson--- Penn.  Beverly Allen--- Mo. Pope's boy.  William Whipple--- Army  Augustus P. Barnard.--- Army  Nesmith.---  Oregon. John B. Engle. Ia. now in Libby---Hon. H. S. Lane. 

Memorandum: Appointment of Beverly Allen
[c. March 10] 1864
Papers used when making West-Point appointments for 1863---and now some to be used in 1864.

Order Assigning Ulysses S. Grant to Command of the Armies of the U.S.
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., March , 1864.
Under the authority of an act of Congress to revive the grade of lieutenant-general in the United States Army, approved February 29, 1864, Lieutenant-General Ulysses S. Grant, U.S. Army, is assigned to the command of the armies of the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To George D. Ramsay
March 10, 1864
I'think the Absterdam projectile is too good a thing to be lost to the service, and if offered at the Hotchkiss prices, and not in excessive quantities, nor unreasonable terms in other respects, by either or both parties to the patent controversy, take it, so that the test be fully made. I am for the government having the best articles, in spite of patent controversies. A. LINCOLN March. 10. 1864.

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion, Major General Rosecrans Washington, March 10, 1864.
Please carefully examine and consider the question whether, on the whole, it would be advantageous to our Military operations for the United States to furnish iron for completing the South-West-Branch of the Pacific Railroad all, or any part of the way from Rolla to Springfield, Missouri, so fast as the Company shall do all the other work for the completion, and to receive pay for said iron in transportation upon said newly made part of said road--- and if your opinion shall be in the affirmative, make a contract with the company to that effect, subject to my approval or rejection. In any event report the main facts together with your reasoning, to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

I would like for Mr. Dudley and Mr. Scovel to be obliged in this matter. A. LINCOLN March 10. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 10, 1864
The widow of Commander Ward of the Navy, killed at Mathia's Point early in the war appeals to me to discharge her son, who has enlisted in the New York 6th. . . . For the memory of his father and that his mother is an indigent widdow, let him be discharged.

To W. F. M. Arny
March 12, 1864
I shall not be hasty about the matter mentioned. Mr. Perea never asked for your removal, at least, never to me, till very recently; and then only as I understood him, because you had left your post and come here to meddle with him and his business. I only wish now you were at your post attending to it's duties. March 12. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Butler War Department, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, D.C., March 12 1864.
If Miss Gaston and Miss Manly still refuse to take the oath let them return South. A LINCOLN

To William M. Fishback
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, William Fishback War Department, Fort-Smith, Ark. Washington, D.C., March 12 1864.
I know not that any change of departmental lines is likely to be made in Arkansas; but if done, it will be for purely military reasons, to which the good people there can have no just cause of objection. Get out the largest vote you can, and the largest part of them on the right side which is possible A. LINCOLN

General Orders No. 98
War Department General Orders} Washington City, No. 98} March 12th, 1864.
The President of the United States orders as follows: I. Major General H. W. Halleck is, at his own request, relieved from duty as General-in-chief of the Army, and Lieutenant General U. S. Grant is assigned to the command of the Armies of the United States. The Head Quarters of the Army will be in Washington, and also with Lieutenant General Grant in the field. II. Major General H. W. Halleck is assigned to duty in Washington as Chief of Staff of the Army, under the direction of the Secretary of War and the Lieutenant General commanding. His orders will be obeyed and respected accordingly. III. Major General W. T. Sherman is assigned to the command of the Military Division of the Mississippi, composed of the Departments of the Ohio, the Cumberland, the Tennessee, and the Arkansas. IV. Major General J. B. McPherson is assigned to the command of the Department and Army of the Tennessee. By order of the Secretary of War

To Isaac Murphy
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Murphy War Department, Little Rock, Ark. Washington, D.C., March 12 1864.
I am not appointing officers for Arkansas now, and I will try to remember your request. Do your best to get out the largest vote possible; and, of course, as much of it as possible on the right side A. LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. J. R. Reid

Allow Mrs. J. R. Reid, with her child, to take the oath of Dec. 8, 1863, and pass our lines at City-Point, and go North. March 12, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate
Executive Office To the Senate of the United States: March 12 1864.
In obedience to the resolution of the Senate of the 28th of January last, I communicate herewith a report, with accompanying papers, from the Secretary of the Interior, showing what portion of the appropriations for the colonization of persons of African descent has been expended, and the several steps which have been taken for the execution of the Acts of Congress on that subject. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 12, 1864.
Gov. Smith of Rhode Island brings you this. Please give him a full hearing. After a pretty full talk with him, it seems to me that the one thing most likely to surmount the difficulty there, would be to not consolidate the 1st. & 3rd. Cavalry, but preserve them both, the Governor to exert himself to the utmost to fill both. The consolidation throws out one set of officers, and which ever set it may be, it offends either the Governor or a U.S. Senator. We can not afford to offend either, while we can avoid it. Please try. There is also a difficulty about Capt. Silvey, upon which I hope you will fully hear the Governor.  Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Lewis Wallace
March 12, 1864
Will Major General Lewis Wallace Please join some other General officers to a Dinner at the Executive Mansion at 6-45 o'clock, this evening. A. LINCOLN March 12, 1864.

To Gideon Welles
[c. March 12, 1864]
Has the Sec. of the Navy any knowledge of this case? and if any, what? A LINCOLN

To Meredith P. Gentry
Hon. M. P. Gentry Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 13. 1864.
Yours by the hand of Gen. Grant is received. Of course I have not forgotten you, Gen. Grant is hereby authorized, in his discretion, to send you South; and it is rather my wish that he may find it not inconsistent with his view of the public interest to oblige you. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Michael Hahn
Private Executive Mansion,
Hon. Michael Hahn Washington, My dear Sir: March 13. 1864.
I congratulate you on having fixed your name in history as the first-free-state Governor of Louisiana. Now you are about to have a Convention which, among other things, will probably define the elective franchise. I barely suggest for your private consideration, whether some of the colored people may not be let in---as, for instance, the very intelligent, and especially those who have fought gallantly in our ranks. They would probably help, in some trying time to come, to keep the jewel of liberty within the family of freedom. But this is only a suggestion, not to the public, but to you alone. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Carl Schurz
Private. Executive Mansion, Major General Schurz Washington, My dear Sir: March 13, 1864.
Yours of February 29th, reached me only four days ago; but the delay was of little consequence, because I found, on feeling around, I could not invite you here without a difficulty which at least would be unpleasant, and perhaps would be detrimental to the public service. Allow me to suggest that if you wish to remain in the military service, it is very dangerous for you to get temporarily out of it; because, with a Major General once out, it is next to impossible for even the President to get him in again. With my appreciation of your ability, and correct principle, of course I would be very glad to have your service for the country in the approaching political canvass; but I fear we can not properly have it, without separating you from the military. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, March 14, 1864.
1 Lieut, and Adjt. of 6. Wisconsin Volunteers, Edward P. Brooks is a prisoner of War at Richmond; and if you can, without difficulty, effect a special exchange for him, I shall be obliged. A. LINCOLN

Draft Order for 200,000 Men
Executive Mansion. Washington, March 14th 1864.
In order to supply the force required to be drafted for the Navy, and to provide an adequate reserve force for all contingencies,--- in addition to the five hundred thousand men called for February 1st. 1864, a call is hereby made and a draft ordered for two hundred thousand men for the ``military service'' (Army, Navy, and Marine Corps) of the United States. The proportional quotas for the different wards, towns, townships, precincts or election districts, or counties, will be made known through the Provost Marshal General's Bureau, and account will be taken of the credits and deficiencies on former quotas. The 15th. day of April, 1864, is designated as the time up to which the numbers required from each ``ward of a city, town,'' &c. may be raised by voluntary enlistment, and drafts will be made in ``each ward of a city, town,'' &c. which shall not have filled the quota assigned to it within the time designated, for the number required to fill said quotas. The draft will be commenced as soon after the 15th. of April as practicable. The Government bounties, as now paid, continue until April 1st, 1864, at which time the additional bounties cease. On and after that date, one hundred dollars bounty only will be paid, as provided by the act approved July 22d. 1861. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Endorsement

If this womans husband is in our service, let her have transportation home. A LINCOLN March. 14. 1864.

Memorandum:Appointment Thornton A. Jenkins, Jr.

Capt. Fox is very anxious for this young man. A. LINCOLN March 14, 1864.

To the Senate
To the Senate, Executive Mansion, of the United States. Washington, March , 1864.
I transmit, herewith, a report of the Secretary of the Interior, of the 11th instant, containing the information requested in Senate Resolution of the 29th ultimo. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March 14, 1864
To the Senate and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a copy of a Treaty between the United States and Great Britain, for the final settlement of the claims of the Hudson's Bay and Puget's Sound Agricultural Companies, concluded on the 1st. of July, last, the ratifications of which were exchanged in this City, on the 5th. instant; and recommend an appropriation to carry into effect the first, second, and third articles thereof. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 14th. March, 1864.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March 14, 1864
To the Senate and House of Representatives: On the 25th. day of November 1862, a Convention for the mutual adjustment of claims pending between the United States and Ecuador, was signed at Quito by the plenipotentiaries of the contracting parties. A copy is herewith enclosed. This Convention, already ratified by this Government, has been sent to Quito for the customary exchange of ratifications, which it is not doubted will be promptly effected. As the stipulations of the instrument require that the Commissioners who are to be appointed pursuant to its provisions shall meet at Guayaquil within ninety days after such exchange, it is desirable that the legislation necessary to give effect to the Convention on the part of the United States, should anticipate the usual course of proceeding. I therefore invite the early attention of Congress to the subject. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington March 14, 1864.

Endorsement Concerning Churches in New Orleans
March 15, 1864
While I leave this case to the discretion of Gen. Banks, my view is, that the U.S. should not appoint trustees for or in any way take charge of any church as such. If the building is needed for military purposes, take it; if it is not so needed, let its church people have it, dealing with any disloyal people among them, as you deal with other disloyal people. A. LINCOLN March 15th. 1864

To Ulysses S. Grant
Private Executive Mansion Lieut. Genl. Grant Washington, D.C. Nashville, Tenn. March 15. 1864
Gen. McPherson having been assigned to the command of a Department, could not Gen. Frank Blair without difficulty or detriment to the service, be assigned to command the corps he commanded a while last autumn? A LINCOLN

To Michael Hahn
His Excellency Executive Mansion, Michael Hahn Washington, Governor of Louisiana March 15. 1864.
Until further order, you are hereby invested with the powers exercised hitherto by the Military Governor of Louisiana. Yours truly ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the vacancy has not been filled, let the within request be granted. A. LINCOLN March 15. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 15. 1864.
Please see the gallant Drummer-boy, Robert H. Hendershot, whose history is briefly written on the fine drum presented him which he now carries. He must have a chance, and if you can find any situation suitable to him, I shall be obliged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, March 15, 1864.
I understand a question exists as to the time the Pennsylvania Reserve Corps' term expires. Let them have their own way upon that, unless it would cause very considerable injury. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Private Executive Mansion, Hon. Sec. of War Washington, My dear Sir, March 15, 1864.
I shall be personally obliged if you will allow Silas H. Highley to take the oath of Dec. 8. and be discharged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN P.S. He is at Alton, Illinois. A L.

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Washington, Whom it may concern. March 15. 1864.
Major General Sickles is making a tour for me from here by way of Cairo, New-Orleans, and returning by the Gulf and Ocean; and all Land and Naval officers and employees, are directed to furnish reasonable transportation and other reasonable facilities to himself and personal Staff, not inconsistent with the public service. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Isaac Murphy
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Isaac Murphy War Department, Little Rock, Ark Washington, D.C., March 16th. 1864.
What of your election on the 14th.? A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, March 17, 1864.
If you obtain the remains of Col. Dahlgren, please notify me instantly, so that I can let his afflicted know A. LINCOLN

To John A. J. Creswell
Hon. John A. J. Creswell Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 17, 1864.
It needs not to be a secret, that I wish success to emancipation in Maryland. It would aid much to end the rebellion. Hence it is a matter of national consequence, in which every national man, may rightfully feel a deep interest. I sincerely hope the friends of the measure will allow no minor considerations to divide and distract them. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order for Discharge of Christopher C. Callan and Daniel R. Payne
March 17, 1864
Let Christopher C. Callan and Daniel R. Payne, named within, take the oath of Dec. 8, and be discharged and remain hereabouts for the object within indicated A. LINCOLN March 17, 1864

To William S. Rosecrans
Major Gen'l Rosecrans. Executive Mansion, St: Louis, Mo. Washington, March 17th. 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of John T. Abshier, citizen, until further orders. A. LINCOLN. Maj: Eckert Please send the above dispatch JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv: Sec

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler, Executive Mansion, Fortress Monroe. Washington, March 18th, 1864.
Edward P. Brooks, 1st Lieutenant 6th Wisconsin, is a prisoner of war, at Richmond. I desire, that if practicable his special exchange be effected for a rebel prisoner of same rank. Have you one to send, and can you arrange it at once? A. LINCOLN Maj: Eckert Please send the above dispatch JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv: Sec

Endorsement Concerning Benjamin A. Watson
March 18, 1864
The writer of this resides in my town, is an intimate acquaintance and friend, and is of good character, and good qualification for the business he seeks to be engaged in. I know nothing of the particular case. A. LINCOLN March 18. 1864

To Isaac Murphy
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Murphy War Department, Little-Rock, Ark. Washington, D.C. March 18. 1864.
Yours of yesterday received, & thanks for it. Send further returns when you receive them. Will do my best to protect people and new State government, but can act with no better intentions than have always done. Tell Gen. Steele I have Randolph's pardon  & will send by mail if he says so. A. LINCOLN

Remarks at Closing of Sanitary Fair, Washington, D. C.
March 18, 1864
Ladies and Gentlemen: I appear to say but a word. This extra-ordinary war in which we are engaged falls heavily upon all classes of people, but the most heavily upon the soldier. For it has been said, all that a man hath will he give for his life; and while all contribute of their substance the soldier puts his life at stake, and often yields it up in his country's cause. The highest merit, then, is due to the soldier. [Cheers.] In this extraordinary war extraordinary developments have manifested themselves, such as have not been seen in former wars; and amongst these manifestations nothing has been more remarkable than these fairs for the relief of suffering soldiers and their families. And the chief agents in these fairs are the women of America. [Cheers.] I am not accustomed to the use of language of eulogy; I have never studied the art of paying compliments to women; but I must say that if all that has been said by orators and poets since the creation of the world in praise of woman were applied to the women of America, it would not do them justice for their conduct during this war. I will close by saying God bless the women of America! [Great applause.]

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 18. 1864.
I am so pressed in regard to prisoners of war in our custody, whose homes are within our lines, and who wish to not be exchanged, but to take the oath and be discharged, that I hope you will pardon me for again calling up the subject. My impression is that we will not ever force the exchange of any of this class; that taking the oath, and being discharged, none of them will again go to the rebellion, but the rebellion again coming to them, a considerable per centage of them, probably not a majority, would rejoin it; that by a cautious discrimination the number so discharged would not be large enough to do any considerable mischief in any event; would relieve distress in, at least some meritorious cases; and would give me some relief from an intolerable pressure. I shall be glad therefore to have your cheerful assert to the discharge of those whose names I may send, which I will only do with circumspection. Yours truly A. LINCOLN In using the strong hand, as now compelled to do, the government has a difficult duty to perform. At the very best, it will by turns do both too little and too much. It can properly have to motive of revenge, no purpose to punish merely for punishment's sake. While we must, by all available means, prevent the overthrow of the government, we should avoid planting and cultivating too many thorns in the bosom of society. These general remarks apply to several classes of cases, on each of which I wish to say a word. First, the dismissal of officers when neither incompetency, nor intentional wrong, nor real injury to the service, is imputed. In such cases it is both cruel and impolitic, to crush the man, and make him and his friends permanent enemies to the administration if not to the government itself. I think of two instances. One wherein a Surgeon, for the benefit of patients in his charge, needed some lumber, and could only get it by making a false certificate wherein the lumber was denominated ``butter & eggs'' and he was dismissed for the false certificate. The other a Surgeon by the name of Owen  who served from the beginning of the war till recently, with two servants, and without objection. when upon discovery that the servants were his own sons , he was dismissed. Another class consists of those who are known or strongly suspected, to be in sympathy with the rebellion. An instance of this is the family of Southern,  who killed a recruiting officer last autumn, in Maryland. He fled, and his family are driven from their home, without a shelter or crumb, except when got by burthening our friends more than our enemies. Southern had no justification to kill the officer; and yet he would not have been killed if he had proceeded in the temper and manner agreed upon by your-self and Gov. Bradford. But this is past. What is to be done with the family? Why can they not occupy their old home, and excite much less opposition to the government than the manifestation of their distress is now doing? If the house is really needed for the public service; or if it has been regularly confiscated and the title transferred, the case if different. Again, the cases of persons, mostly women, wishing to pass our lines, one way or the other. We have, in some cases, been apparantly, if not really, inconsistent upon this subject---that is, we have forced some to go who wished to stay, and forced others to stay who wished to go. Suppose we allow all females, with ungrown children of either sex, to go South, if they desire, upon absolute prohibition against returning during the war; and all to come North upon the same condition of not returning during the war, and the additional condition of taking the oath. I wish to mention two special cases---both of which you well remember. The first is that of Yocum.  He was unquestionably guilty. No one asking for his pardon pretends the contrary. What he did, however, was perfectly lawful, only a short while before, and the change making it unlawful had not, even then been fully accepted in the public mind. It is doubtful whether Yocum did not suppose it was really lawful to return a slave to a loyal owner, though it is certain he did the thing secretly, in the belief that his superiors would not allow it if known to them. But the great point with me is that the severe punishment of five years at hard labor in the Penitentiary is not at all necessary to prevent the repetition of the crime by himself or by others. If the offence was one of frequent recurrence, the case would be different; but this case of Yocum is the single instance which has come to my knowledge. I think that for all public purposes, and for all proper purposes, he has suffered enough. The case of Smithson is troublesome.  His wife and children are quartered mostly on our friends, and exciting a great deal of sympathy, which will soon tell against us. What think you of sending him and his family South, holding the sentence over him to be re-inforced if he returns during the war.

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, March 19, 1864.
Please find a Captain amo[ng] the rebel prisoners in your charge and exchange of for Capt. T. Ten Eyck, of 18th. U.S. Infantry, now a prisoner at Richmond. A. LINCOLN

Order for Discharge of George B. Ackerman
March 20, 1864
If George B. Ackerman, now a prisoner of War at Camp Douglas, Illinois, shall take the oath of December 8. 1863, and be discharged, I pledge my honor he will keep faith. HENRY WILSON Let him take the oath and be discharged. A. LINCOLN March 20 1864

To Montgomery Blair
Post-Master-General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 21, 1864.
These young ladies, Miss Dugger and Miss Beattie, are from Illinois, & want employment. They are loyal and worthy, and I shall be very glad indeed if places can be found for them. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Clara and Julia Brown
Executive Mansion Washington Misses Clara & Julia Brown March 21 1864
The Afgan you sent is received, and gratefully accepted. I especially like my little friends; and although you have never seen me, I am glad you remember me for the country's sake, and even more, that you remember, and try to help, the poor Soldiers. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning George W. Lane

I approve the object of the within. A. LINCOLN. March 21, 1864.

To Henry H. Lockwood
March 21, 1864
So far as I know, the placing of Maj. Gen. Wallace in command at Baltimore, was not in consequence of any objection of any sort, to Gen. Lockwood. This much said in writing, I verbally explain a little further to Lt. Col Massey. A. LINCOLN March 21. 1864

Reply to New York Workingmen's Democratic Republican Association
Gentlemen of the Committee. March 21, 1864
The honorary membership in your Association, as generously tendered, is gratefully accepted. You comprehend, as your address shows, that the existing rebellion, means more, and tends to more, than the perpetuation of African Slavery---that it is, in fact, a war upon the rights of all working people. Partly to show that this view has not escaped my attention, and partly that I cannot better express myself, I read a passage from the Message to Congress in December 1861: ``It continues to develop that the insurrection * * * * * * * * * * till all of liberty shall be lost.''  The views then expressed remain unchanged, nor have I much to add. None are so deeply interested to resist the present rebellion as the working people. Let them beware of prejudice, working division and hostility among themselves. The most notable feature of a disturbance in your city last summer, was the hanging of some working people by other working people. It should never be so. The strongest bond of human sympathy, outside of the family relation, should be one uniting all working people, of all nations, and tongues, and kindreds. Nor should this lead to a war upon property, or the owners of property. Property is the fruit of labor ---property is desirable --- --- is a positive good in the world. That some should be rich, shows that others may become rich, and hence is just encouragement to industry and enterprize. Let not him who is houseless pull down the house of another; but let him labor diligently and build one for himself, thus by example assuring that his own shall be safe from violence when built.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 21, 1864.
If there is on file a request of Gen. Meigs, that William Alexander may be appointed an Assistant Quarter-Master, with the rank of Captain, let him be appointed. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, March 22. 1864.
Hon. W. R. Morrison, says he has requested you by letter to effect a special exchange of Lt. Col. A. F. Rogers, of 80th. Ills. Vols. now in Libby Prison and I shall be glad if you can effect it. A LINCOLN

On Slavery

I never knew a man who wished to be himself a slave. Consider if you know any good thing, that no man desires for himself. March 22, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: March 22, 1864
I herewith lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty made and concluded in Washington City on the 18th instant, by and between William P. Dole, commissioner of Indian Affairs, and the Shawnee Indians, represented by their duly authorized delegates. A report of the Secretary of the Interior and a communication of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs accompany the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Office, Washington, March 22d, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If services needed let him be appointed. A. LINCOLN March 22. 1864

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac Washington, March 23, 1864.
Please suspend execution of Alanson Orton, under sentence for desertion, until further order A. LINCOLN

To Robert C. Schenck
March 23, 1864
After the company left last evening, Mrs. L. made known to me a little matter which has annoyed me ever since . . . I beg to assure you that a programme was brought to me, exactly as I carried it out; and that I had not the slightest suspicion of a mistake. I am aware this is no great matter, not going beyond a little temporary embarrassment to any but myself; still I feel that this explanation is due all round, which I am sure you will believe is the truth, and nothing but the truth.

To Carl Schurz
Executive Mansion Washington, Major General Schurz. March 23. 1864
My dear Sir: The letter, of which the above is a copy, was sent to you, before Mr. Willmann saw me; and now yours of the 19th. tells me you did not receive it. I do not wish to be more specific about the difficulty of your coming to Washington. I think you can easily conjecture it. I perceive no objection to your making a political speech when you are where one is to be made; but quite surely speaking in the North, and fighting in the South, at the same time, are not possible. Nor could I be justified to detail any officer to the political campaign during it's continuance, and then return him to the Army

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 23, 1864
I would like to oblige Gov. Newell with a note like the within, unless the Sec. of War perceives objection. Will he please answer? March 23. 1864. A. LINCOLN The Long-Branch and Sea-Shore Railroad Company is hereby authorized to make and use a railroad track on the land of the United States, conforming to the curve dotted line on this map, which line commences at the figure 8, and runs Southward nearly touching the right hand ends of these written lines, and on till it passes off the government lands, upon condition that said railroad track and all possession of the ground shall be removed and surrendered by force if necessary, upon either the order of the President of the United States, or a Joint Resolution of Congress so requiring.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please send me a nomination as within requested. A. LINCOLN March 24. 1864

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major Gen. Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, March 24, 1864.
Please, if you can, effect special exchanges, for J. F. Robinson, 1st. Lieut. Co. E, 67, P.V. and C. L. Edmunds, 1st. Lieut. Co. D, 67, P.V. A. LINCOLN

To James R. Doolittle

Hon. J. R. Doolittle, please call and see me this morning. March 24, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion, Washington, Judge Advocate General March 24, 1864.
Please examine and report upon the case of Capt. John Hopper, Co. D. 21st. Regt. Invalid Corps, said to have been summarily dismissed. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion, Major-General Meade, Army of Potomac: March 24, 1864.
Do not change your purpose to send Private Orton, of Twelfth U.S. Infantry, to the Dry Tortugas. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: March 24, 1864
In reply to the Resolution of the Senate of the 15th. instant in relation to the establishment of monarchical governments in Central and South America, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, to whom the subject was referred. Washington 24 March 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To John P. Usher
March 24, 1864
If there is such an office, vacant, and ready to be filled, as indicated, the Sec. of the Interior will please send me a nomination, according to the within. A. LINCOLN March. 24. 1864

To Benjamin B. French
Private Executive Mansion,
Hon. B. B. French Washington,
March 25, 1864.
My dear Sir: I understand a Bill is before Congress, by your instigation, for taking your office from the control of the Department of the Interior, and considerably enlarging the powers and patronage of your office. The proposed change may be right for aught I know; and it certainly is right for Congress to do as it thinks proper in the case. What I wish to say is that if the change is made, I do not think I can allow you to retain the office; because that would be encouraging officers to be constantly intriguing, to the detriment of the public interest, in order to profit themselves. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James H. Lane
March 25, 1864
I have endorsed, as you see, your application for Henry W. Fick to be an Assistant Pay-Master in the Navy. I return it to you to say that, by law, he cannot be appointed. . . .

To Thurlow Weed
Hon. Thurlow Weed Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 25. 1864.
I have been both pained and surprised recently at learning that you are wounded because a suggestion of yours as to the mode of conducting our national difficulty, has not been followed---pained, because I very much wish you to have no unpleasant feeling proceeding from me, and surprised, because my impression is that I have seen you, since the last Message issued, apparantly feeling very cheerful and happy. How is this? Yours truly A LINCOLN

Proclamation About Amnesty
March 26, 1864
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, it has become necessary to define the cases in which insurgent enemies are entitled to the benefits of the proclamation of the President of the United States, which was made on the eighth day of December, 1863, and the manner in which they shall proceed to avail themselves of those benefits: And whereas, the objects of that proclamation were to suppress the insurrection and to restore the authority of the United States, and whereas the amnesty therein proposed by the President was offered with reference to these objects alone: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby proclaim and declare that the said proclamation does not apply to the cases of persons who, at the time when they seek to obtain the benefits thereof by taking the oath thereby prescribed are in military, naval or civil confinement or custody, or under bonds or on parole of the civil, military or naval authorities or agents of the United States as prisoners of war or persons detained for offences of any kind, either before or after conviction, and that, on the contrary, it does apply only to those persons who being yet at large and free from any arrest, confinement or duress, shall voluntarily come forward and take the said oath with the purpose of restoring peace and establishing the national authority. Prisoners excluded from the amnesty offered in the said proclamation may apply to the President for clemency like all other offenders, and their applications will receive due consideration. I do farther declare and proclaim that the oath prescribed in the aforesaid proclamation of the 8th. of December, 1863, may be taken and subscribed before any commissioned officer, civil, military or naval, in the service of the United States, or any civil or military officer of a State or Territory not in insurrection, who, by the laws thereof, may be qualified for administering oaths. All officers who receive such oaths are hereby authorized to give certificates thereon to the persons respectively by whom they are made. And such officers are hereby required to transmit the original records of such oaths at as early a day as may be convenient to the Department of State, where they will be deposited and remain in the archives of the Government. The Secretary of State will keep a register thereof, and will on application, in proper cases, issue certificates of such records in the customary form of official certificates. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington, the twenty-sixth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-four, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-eighth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To Edward Bates
March 28, 1864
Will the Attorney General please give me his opinion whether this law relieves the Marshal of the District from the duty of executing the death sentence upon persons under that sentence in the District jail? A. LINCOLN March 28. 1864

To Joseph Holt
Judge Advocate General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, March 28. 1864.
I am told there is a man in the Old Capitol Prison by the name of Benedict A. King, on some charge of desertion. He belongs, it is said, to the 153rd. N. Y. Vols.  He wishes to be sent to his Regiment. Report me the facts of his case if you can. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 28, 1864.
The letter of Mr. Tho. H. Burrowes, written in behalf of the Common School Teachers of Pennsylvania, and which you left with me as a mode of giving me the notice therein requested, is herewith returned to you. Please present to the writer, and to those he represents, my grateful thanks for this evidence of their patriotic devotion, and this contribution to the great loyal public sentiment of the country, which is, indeed, the foundation of all else that is valuable in this great national trial. The gun tendered you will please accept and dispose of in such way as you may deem proper. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 28 1864.
The Governor of Kentucky is here, and desires to have the following points definitely fixed: 1. That the quotas of troops furnished, and to be furnished by Kentucky, may be adjusted upon the basis as actually reduced by able bodied men of hers having gone into the rebel service; and that she be required to furnish no more than her just quotas upon fair adjustment on such basis. 2. That to whatever extent the enlistment, and drafting, one or both, of colored troops may be found necessary within the State, it may be conducted within the law of Congress; and, as far as practicable, free from colateral embarrasments, disorders, and provocations. I think these requests of the Governor are reasonable; and I shall be obliged, if you will give him a full hearing, and do the best you can to effect these objects. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lt. Genl. Grant Executive Mansion Army of Potomac Washington, March 29. 1864
Capt. Kinney, of whom I spoke to you as desiring to go on your Staff, is now in your camp in company with Mrs. Senator Dixon. Mrs. Grant and I and some others agreed last night that I should, by this despatch, kindly call your attention to Capt. Kinney. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Johnson Executive Mansion, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, March 29. 1864.
Judge Catron is asking for the discharge of W. M. Bell, now at Rock-Island, and whom he thinks was arrested as a hostage by you or by your authority. What say you? A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, March 29. 1864.
Your letter to Col. Townsend, inclosing a slip from the Herald, and asking a Court of Inquiry, has been laid before [me] by the Secretary of War, with the request that I would consider it. It is quite natural that you should feel some sensibility on the subject; yet I am not impressed, nor do I think the country is impressed, with the belief that your honor demands, or the public interest demands, such an Inquiry. The country knows that, at all events, you have done good service; and I believe it agrees with me that it is much better for you [to] be engaged in trying to do more, than to be diverted, as you necessarily would be, by a Court of Inquiry. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order for Discharge of Prisoners
March 29, 1864
If the persons whose names follow, now prisoners of war shall take the oath of December 8, 1863, and be discharged, we, the undersigned members of Congress pledge our honor that they will keep faith: John F. Rice, at Rock Island, Ill. James J. Moore, at Camp Morton, I Robert P. Green, at Johnson Island James B. McCreay, at Columbus, O. J. Miller Turner, at Rock Island, Ill. Andrew Moore, at Camp Morton, In. (Signed) Lu Anderson M. C. W. H. Randall M. C. B. J. Clay M. C. Let the above named prisoners be discharged upon the condition stated. A. LINCOLN March 29, 1864.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March 29, 1864
To the Senate, and House of Representatives Mr Charles B. Stuart, Consulting Engineer, appointed such by me, upon invitation of the Governor of New York, according to a law of that State, has made a Report, upon the proposed improvements to pass Gun-Boats from Tide-water to the Northern and North-Western Lakes, which Report is herewith respectfully transmitted for your consideration. ABRAHAM LINCOLN March 29, 1864

To Richard M. Corwine
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. R. M. Corwine War Department, New-York. Washington, D.C., March 30 1864.
It does not occur to me that you can present the Smith case any better than you have done. Of this, however, you must judge for yourself. A LINCOLN

Order for Pardon of Henry F. Luckett

Let this man, Henry F. Luckett, be pardoned, and sent North. March. 30. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Lewis Wallace
[c. March 30, 1864]
Will Gen. Wallace call and see me? A. LINCOLN.

To William Windom

Hon. Mr. Windom, please see & hear Rev. Bishop Whipple, about Indians. He has much information on the subject. March 30. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

The Vice-President & Senator Fessenden present this Petition & join in the prayer thereof. A LINCOLN March 31. 1864

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine & report on this case. March 31. 1864 A. LINCOLN.

MemorandumConcerning Thomas Worthington
Copy .
Executive Mansion. March 31st. 1864.
Today I verbally told Colonel Worthington that I did not think him fit for a Colonel; and now, upon his urgent request, I put it in writing. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Sec. of War March 31, 1864.
Gen. Wallace has been with me; and I think he is getting along with the matter we wished to see him for, very satisfactorily. It is a great point, which he seems to be effecting, to get Gov. B. & Hon. H. W. D.  together. I have told him to be fair, but to give the benefit of all doubts to the emancipationists. Please confer with him, and add any suggestion that may occur to you. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
March 31, 1864
I sincerely wish that something satisfactory to Lt. Col. Scates---an old personal friend & most worthy gentleman---may be done for him. A. LINCOLN March. 31. 1864

To Thomas Worthington
Executive Mansion, Col. Worthington Washington, March 31, 1864.
If Major General Schenck will say in writing upon this sheet that he believes the public service would be advanced by your being placed at the head of a Regiment in the field, I will remove any legal disability resting upon you so that the Governor of Ohio may appoint you to so command a Regiment. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Edward Avery
April 1, 1864
Let this man, Edward Avery go to his Company, and upon faithfully serving out his term, he is fully pardoned as to the offence for which he has been convicted. A. LINCOLN April 1. 1864

To Frederick A. Farley
Executive Mansion, Washington, Reverend and Dear Sir:--- April 1, 1864.
Permit me to return my most cordial thanks for the beautiful present transmitted by you, and for the kind and graceful manner in which it was conveyed. I am very truly yours, A. LINCOLN. Reverend Frederick A. Farley, D. D.

To Ward H. Lamon
April 1, 1864
In this case of Emanuel Pollard the punishment of death is commuted to imprisonment during life at hard labor in the Penitentiary. A. LINCOLN April 1. 1864

Memorandum:Appointment of F. Augustus Schermerhorn
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 1. 1864.
Mr. Stebbins reminds me of Mrs. Schermerhorn's application for her son to West-Point.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 1. 1864.
Senator Harlan tells me that the nomination of Col. Chambers as a Brig. Gen. for Iowa was rejected by the Senate to-day; and he asks that Col. E. Hatch of the 2nd. Iowa Cavalry be nominated in the place. I remember Col. Hatch to be very excellently recommended; and I am content if you know nothing to the contrary If all right send me the nomination. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order Prohibiting Export of Salted Provisions
Ordered: Executive Mansion, April, 2d., 1864.
That the Executive Order of September, 4th., 1863, in relation to the exportation of live stock from the United States, be so extended, as to prohibit the exportations of all classes of salted provisions from any port of the United States to any foreign port, except, that meats, cured, salted or packed in any state or territory, bordering on the Pacific ocean, may be exported from any port of such state or territory. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Joseph H. Barrett

J. H. Barrett, Com. of Pensions, please call and see me. April 3. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
April 4, 1864.
Attorney General please give me your legal opinion whether the Pay-Master should have paid as demanded, and if yea, is it the duty of the President to order him to pay? A. LINCOLN April 4. 1864.

To Edward Bates
April 4, 1864.
Will the Attorney General please give me his opinion whether the President has legal power to remit the fine in the case as within stated? A. LINCOLN April 4. 1864

To Edward Bates

Hon. W. H. Randall, knows Judge Woodson & concurs in this recommendation. A. LINCOLN April 4. 1864. File

Endorsement

I wish this brought to my notice at the right time. April 4. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Albert G. Hodges
A. G. Hodges, Esq Executive Mansion, Frankfort, Ky. Washington, April 4, 1864.
My dear Sir: You ask me to put in writing the substance of what I verbally said the other day, in your presence, to Governor Bramlette and Senator Dixon. It was about as follows: ``I am naturally anti-slavery. If slavery is not wrong, nothing is wrong. I can not remember when I did not so think, and feel. And yet I have never understood that the Presidency conferred upon me an unrestricted right to act officially upon this judgment and feeling. It was in the oath I took that I would, to the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. I could not take the office without taking the oath. Nor was it my view that I might take an oath to get power, and break the oath in using the power. I understood, too, that in ordinary civil administration this oath even forbade me to practically indulge my primary abstract judgment on the moral question of slavery. I had publicly declared this many times, and in many ways. And I aver that, to this day, I have done no official act in mere deference to my abstract judgment and feeling on slavery. I did understand however, that my oath to preserve the constitution to the best of my ability, imposed upon me the duty of preserving, by every indispensable means, that government---that nation---of which that constitution was the organic law. Was it possible to lose the nation, and yet preserve the constitution? By general law life and limb must be protected; yet often a limb must be amputated to save a life; but a life is never wisely given to save a limb. I felt that measures, otherwise unconstitutional, might become lawful, by becoming indispensable to the preservation of the constitution, through the preservation of the nation. Right or wrong, I assumed this ground, and now avow it. I could not feel that, to the best of my ability, I had even tried to preserve the constitution, if, to save slavery, or any minor matter, I should permit the wreck of government, country, and Constitution all together. When, early in the war, Gen. Fremont attempted military emancipation, I forbade it, because I did not then think it an indispensable necessity. When a little later, Gen. Cameron, then Secretary of War, suggested the arming of the blacks, I objected, because I did not yet think it an indispensable necessity. When, still later, Gen. Hunter attempted military emancipation, I again forbade it, because I did not yet think the indispensable necessity had come. When, in March, and May, and July 1862 I made earnest, and successive appeals to the border states to favor compensated emancipation, I believed the indispensable necessity for military emancipation, and arming the blacks would come, unless averted by that measure. They declined the proposition; and I was, in my best judgment, driven to the alternative of either surrendering the Union, and with it, the Constitution, or of laying strong hand upon the colored element. I chose the latter. In choosing it, I hoped for greater gain than loss; but of this, I was not entirely confident. More than a year of trial now shows no loss by it in our foreign relations, none in our home popular sentiment, none in our white military force,---no loss by it any how or any  where. On the contrary, it shows a gain of quite a hundred and thirty thousand soldiers, seamen, and laborers. These are palpable facts, about which, as facts, there can be no cavilling. We have the men; and we could not have had them without the measure. [``]And now let any Union man who complains of the measure, test himself by writing down in one line that he is for subduing the rebellion by force of arms; and in the next, that he is for taking these hundred and thirty thousand men from the Union side, and placing them where they would be but for the measure he condemns. If he can not face his case so stated, it is only because he can not face the truth.[''] I add a word which was not in the verbal conversation. In telling this tale I attempt no compliment to my own sagacity. I claim not to have controlled events, but confess plainly that events have controlled me. Now, at the end of three years struggle the nation's condition is not what either party, or any man devised, or expected. God alone can claim it. Whither it is tending seems plain. If God now wills the removal of a great wrong, and wills also that we of the North as well as you of the South, shall pay fairly for our complicity in that wrong, impartial history will find therein new cause to attest and revere the justice and goodness of God. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Isabel II
April 4, 1864
Abraham Lincoln. President of the United States of America To Her Majesty Dona Isabel II, By the Grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy, Queen of Spain, &c, &c, &c. Great Good Friend: I have received the letter which your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 24th. of February last, announcing that Your Majesty had, on the 12th. of that month, safely given birth to an Infanta who had received in baptism the names of Maria, Eulalia, Francisco de Asis, Margarite, Roberta Isabel, Francisca de Paula, Cristina Maria de la Piedad. Your Majesty does no more than justice to the friendly feelings of the United States in beliveing that they participate with Your Majesty and Royal Family in the joy consequent upon this event: and I beg Your Majesty to accept my sincere congratulations May God have your Majesty always in His holy keeping Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington April 4th 1864. By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, April 4th, 1864.
This is rather more social than official, containing suggestions rather than orders. I somewhat dread the effect of your Special Order, No. 61 dated March 7. 1864. I have found that men who have not even been suspected of disloyalty, are very averse to taking an oath of any sort as a condition, to exercising an ordinary right of citizenship. The point will probably be made, that while men may without an oath, to assemble in a noisy political meeting, they must take the oath, to assemble in a religious meeting. It is said, I know not whether truly, that in some parts of Missouri, assassinations are systematically committed upon returned rebels, who wish to ground arms, and behave themselves. This should not be. Of course I have not heard that you give countenance to, or wink at such assassinations. Again, it is complained, that the enlistment of negroes, is not conducted in as orderly a manner, and with as little collateral provocation, as it might be. So far you have got along in the Department of the Missouri, rather better than I dared to hope; and I congratulate you and myself upon it. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: April 4, 1864
I herewith lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty concluded June 9, 1863, between C. H. Hale, superintendent of Indian affairs, Charles Hutchins, and S. D. Howe, Indian agents, on the part of the United States, and the chiefs, headmen, and delegates of the Nez Perce tribe of Indians in Washington Territory. A report of the Secretary of the Interior of the 1st instant, with a letter from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, of the 2d ultimo, proposing amendments to the treaty, together with a report of Superintendent Hale on the subject and a synopsis of the proceedings of the council held with the Nez Perce Indians, are herewith transmitted for the consideration of the Senate. Executive Office, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington April 4, 1864.

To Ambrose W. Thompson
Ambrose W. Thompson Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, April 4, 1864.
Yours of yesterday is just received. The financial scheme you suggest I shall consider further, but I have not time to form a conclusion which could reach you by the 6th. I shall be glad to hear from you in Europe as you suggest. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Major General Banks Washington, April 5. 1864.
I have received a letter from Gen. Charles P. Stone, indorsed by yourself, asking that ``some act, some word, some order may issue from the Executive which shall place my name clear of reproach &c.'' Nothing more definite than this is indicated as to what Gen. Stone desires me to do, or supposes I can do in the case. I can only state the facts of the case from memory, and, of course not with great minuteness or accuracy. Gen. Stone was arrested, as I now think, early in February 1862. Owing to sickness in my family, the Secretary of War made the arrest without notifying me that he had it in contemplation. Gen. McClellan was then General-in-chief, with Head Quarters at Washington, and Gen. Stone was commanding a Division twentyfive or thirty miles above on the Potomac. Learning of the arrest I inquired for the cause, and found it, or the evidence constituting it to consist of three classes. First, the evidence taken in writing by the Committee of Congress on the conduct of the War. The point supposed to be made by this against General Stone was that when before the committee at one time, and excusing himself for not having sent a force from one point to another during the battle in which Col. Baker was killed, he stated that the enemy had a redoubt or dirt fort on the route which could not be passed. Afterwards the committee, conceiving that Gen. Stone could have prevented the erection of that fort, and ought to have done so, called him before them again to inquire why he did not, and he then denied that there ever had been a fort at that place. I did not think the evidence, as read to me, made the point conclusively against the general; but that evidence, whatever it is, I suppose is still accessible. Secondly, evidence taken and put in the form of a report by a detective of Gen. McClellan.

To Edward Bates
DeWitt. C. Ballou April 5, 1864
Pardon. Will the Attorney General please preserve these papers? It may be easier hereafter than now, to grant a pardon in the case. April 5. 1864 A.L.

Endorsement Concerning John F. Botts
April 5, 1864
I think the Department Commander, with his assistants, should, with reference to the public peace and security on the one hand, and humanity on the other, decide applications of this class. April 5. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Horace Mann
Mrs. Horace Mann, Executive Mansion, Madam, Washington, April 5, 1864.
The petition of persons under eighteen, praying that I would free all slave children, and the heading of which petition it appears you wrote, was handed me a few days since by Senator Sumner. Please tell these little people I am very glad their young hearts are so full of just and generous sympathy, and that, while I have not the power to grant all they ask, I trust they will remember that God has, and that, as it seems, He wills to do it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I leave to the Sec. of War whether this shall be brought to the notice of Gen. Grant A. LINCOLN April 5. 1864

To Charles Sumner

If Senator Sumner thinks it would be proper, he may forward the inclosed to Mrs. Mann. A.L. April 5. 1864

To Robert B. Van Valkenburgh
April 5, 1864
If Hon. Mr. Van Valkenburgh will say distinctly in writing that he desires the discharge of Reuben C. Ward, he shall be discharged. April 5. 1864. A. LINCOLN Let said Reuben C. Ward be discharged. A. LINCOLN April 5. 1864.

To John Catron
Mr. Justice Catron Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 6, 1864.
Mrs. Masson comes to me with a note of introduction from you. She asks that James H. McEwen, now a prisoner [of] war at Rock-Island, Illinois [be pardoned]. If you will write below on this sheet that if he shall take the oath of December 8. and be discharged, you pledge your honor he will keep faith, I will order his discharge. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the services can be made available let Hon. Mr. Whaley be obliged by the appointment within requested A. LINCOLN April 6, 1864

To Benjamin F. Butler
Executive Mansion, Major General Butler. Washington, April 7, 1864.
Mrs. L. and I think we will visit Fort-Monroe some time next week; meanwhile whatever is to be done on the business-subject  will be conducted through the War Department. Please do not make public our probable visit. A LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
Hon. Simon Cameron Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, April 7, 1864.
aaaaI have this moment, only, received yours of March 29th. I will see you any time it is convenient for you to come. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives: April 7, 1864
I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of War, in answer to the Resolution of the House of Representatives of the 4th. instant, in relation to Major N. H. McLean. Washington, ABRAHAM LINCOLN April 7th. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 7, 1864.
What are the facts in the case of William T. Aud, in the Carroll building prison Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Form Order for Release of Prisoners
April 8, 1864
If the persons whose names follow, now Prisoners of War at---, shall take the oath of December 8, 1863, and be discharged, we, the undersigned Members of Congress, pledge our honor that they will keep faith : Joseph Henry Crosster	Fort Deleware John B. Talbott		Camp Chase Jefferson M Booth 	Camp Chase William E. Wood 	Camp Morton John Cohen	Camp Douglas C. D. Nutter 	Camp Douglas J. N. Taylor 	Fort Deleware T. M Combs 	Fort Deleware Brutus J. Clay, M. C . W. H Randall M. C . Lu Anderson M. C . Excepting such as are commissioned officers, let the above named prisoner[s] be discharged on the conditions stated April 8. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If consistent with the public interest, I shall be glad for the within request to be granted. A. LINCOLN April 8. 1864.

To Gideon Welles

Hon. Sec. of Navy please see & hear Lieut. Merryman, who was raised in the town of my residence A. LINCOLN April 8. 1864

To Benjamin F. Butler
April 9, 1864
Mr. Buttz wishes to return to Portsmouth. I will not force him back into Gen. Butler's Department, contrary to his will; but I will be obliged if Gen. Butler will hear him on the question of what his future conduct will be, and restore him if he shall think he safely can. A. LINCOLN. April 9. 1864

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine and report upon this case. April 9. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please report on this case. April 9. 1864. A. LINCOLN Application denied. A. LINCOLN April 27, 1864.

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Army of the Potomac Washington, April 9. 1864.
Suspend execution of private William Collins, Co. B. 69th. N.Y. Vols. Irish Brigade, and class him with other suspended cases. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let the order in this case be modified as within requested. April 9, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Charles Sumner

Will Senator Summer please call and see me this morning? April 9. 1864 A. LINCOLN 251. F. Street

To Benjamin F. Butler
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Butler War Department, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, D.C., April 11 1864.
Mrs. L. is so unwell that I now think we will not make the contemplated trip this week. Will notify you in time. Will probably get a Boat here, but will accept yours if necessary. Thanks for your kind interest in the case. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning John Ehler

They say that by the destruction of a bridge this boy has been unable to pass on this. Might it not be renewed for the little fellow.? April 11. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion, Washington, Judge Advocate General April 11. 1864.
It is understood that in the early part of 1862, or latter part of 1861, Francis G. Young was tried and dismissed by a Court Martial sitting at Poolesville Md. Col. Devens  was President of the Court. What I want is the record of the trial, & if you can find it for me I shall be obliged Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order for Discharge of Prisoners

Excepting commissioned officers, let the within named prisoners be discharged on the conditions stated. A. LINCOLN April 11. 1864.

To William H. Seward
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. W. H. Seward War Department, Astor-House Washington, D. C., New-York. April 11, 6/15 PM. 1864.
Nothing of importance since you left. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 11, 1864
Hon. Sec. of War, please see L. H. Putnam, whom you will find a very intelligent colored man; and who wishes to talk about our colored forces, their organization, &c A. LINCOLN. April 11, 1864.

To Miss Steele
Executive Mansion, Washington, My Dear Miss Steele April 11, 1864.
I cannot refuse you so slight a favor for so good a purpose. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To John C. Underwood
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 11. 1864.
If Judge John C. Underwood will say in writing on this sheet that he personally knows Mrs. Keenan, and that he desires her & her little nephew to pass our lines and go to her father in Rockingham, Va, I will direct a pass to be given her accordingly. A. LINCOLN

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Whom it may concern Washington, April 11. 1864.
I know nothing on the subject of the attached letter, except as therein stated. Neither do I personally know Mrs. Hunt. She has, however, from the beginning of the war, been constantly represented to me as an open, and somewhat influential friend of the Union. It has been said to me, (I know not whether truly) that her husband is in the rebel army, that she avows her purpose to not live with him again, and that she refused to see him when she had an opportunity during one of John Morgan's raids into Kentucky. I would not offer her, or any wife, a temptation to a permanent separation from her husband; but if she shall avow that her mind is already, independently and fully made up to such separation, I shall be glad for the property sought by her letter, to be delivered to her, upon her taking the oath of December 8, 1863. A. LINCOLN

To Alexander II
April 12, 1864
Abraham Lincoln President of the United States of America. To His Majesty Alexander II. Emperor and Autocrat of all the Russias &c. &c. &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Imperial Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 26th. (14) of January last, announcing the birth of the 22d (10th) of that month of a son who has received the name of Pierre to Madame the Grand Duchess Alexandra Petrovna, Spouse of Your Imperial Majestys well beloved brother His Imperial Highness Monseigneur the Grand Duke Nicolas Nicolaewitch. Your Majesty does but justice to my sentiments in the conviction which you have been pleased to express that I will take, in an event so satisfactory to you, and Your Imperial House the same interest which Your Majesty is ever inclined to take in all that concerns the prosperity of the United States, and I beg Your Majesty to accept my sincere congratulations upon the occasion: And so I recommend Your Majesty's Imperial Family to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 12th April 1864. By the President F. H. SEWARD. Acting Secretary of State.

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion Washington, DC. Fort-Monroe, Va. April 12. 1864
I am pressed to get from Libby, by special exchange, Jacob C. Hagenbuch 1 Lieut. Co. H. 67. Penn. Vols. Please do it, if you can, without detriment or embarrassment. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major Gen. Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, April 12. 1864.
I am appealed to in behalf of Charles Crumblin [Crumpton] said to be under sentence of death, to be executed at Norfolk tomorrow. Please ascertain whether there is any ground for a pardon, or even a respite, and answer me. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major General Dix. Executive Mansion, New York City. Washington, April 12, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence, of William H. Gibney, 7th N. Y. Heavy Artillery, until further orders. A. LINCOLN Maj: Eckert. Please send the above dispatch JNO G. NICOLAY Priv: Sec:

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington D. C. April 13. 1864
Yours in regard to Charles Crumpton received. I have no more to say in the case. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Pardon---proof being insufficient, except for short absence without leave. A. LINCOLN April 14. 1864

To Joseph Holt

This man is pardoned, and hereby ordered to be discharged from the service. A. LINCOLN April 14. 1864

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: April 15, 1864
I herewith lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a supplemental treaty negotiated on the 12th of April, 1864, with the Red Lake and Pembina bands of Chippewa Indians. A report of the Secretary of the Interior of this date and a communication from the Acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs accompany the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington City, April 15, 1864.

To James B. Fry
Executive Mansion April 16. 1864
The within paper was written at my suggestion by gentlemen representing Philadelphia, to present their views of the subject embraced and to be signed by me if I could approve it. I am not prepared to assent to all that it asks at present, but I do order that the Philadelphia quotas be adjusted for the calls of 1863 and 1864 already made, upon the basis that that City was under no deficit on November 3d. 1862, and allowing full credits for all since that date; and further that all other questions presented on said paper are left open for future adjustment. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Halleck
April 16, 1864
Let it be done. A. LINCOLN.

To John P. Usher

Let the lands be withheld from sale as recommended. April 16. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, April 17, 1864.
Private William Collins of Company B, of the Sixty-ninth New York Volunteers, has been convicted of desertion, and execution suspended as in numerous other cases. Now Captain O'Neill, commanding the regiment, and nearly all its other regimental and company officers, petition for his full pardon and restoration to his company. Is there any good objection? A. LINCOLN.

Address at Sanitary Fair, Baltimore, Maryland
April 18, 1864
Ladies and Gentlemen---Calling to mind that we are in Baltimore, we can not fail to note that the world moves. Looking upon these many people, assembled here, to serve, as they best may, the soldiers of the Union, it occurs at once that three years ago, the same soldiers could not so much as pass through Baltimore. The change from then till now, is both great, and gratifying. Blessings on the brave men who have wrought the change, and the fair women who strive to reward them for it. But Baltimore suggests more than could happen within Baltimore. The change within Baltimore is part only of a far wider change. When the war began, three years ago, neither party, nor any man, expected it would last till now. Each looked for the end, in some way, long ere to-day. Neither did any anticipate that domestic slavery would be much affected by the war. But here we are; the war has not ended, and slavery has been much affected---how much needs not now to be recounted. So true is it that man proposes, and God disposes. But we can see the past, though we may not claim to have directed it; and seeing it, in this case, we feel more hopeful and confident for the future. The world has never had a good definition of the word liberty, and the American people, just now, are much in want of one. We all declare for liberty; but in using the same word we do not all mean the same thing . With some the word liberty may mean for each man to do as he pleases with himself, and the product of his labor; while with others the same word may mean for some men to do as they please with other men, and the product of other men's labor. Here are two, not only different, but incompatable things, called by the same name---liberty. And it follows that each of the things is, by the respective parties, called by two different and incompatable names---liberty and tyranny. The shepherd drives the wolf from the sheep's throat, for which the sheep thanks the shepherd as a liberator , while the wolf denounces him for the same act as the destroyer of liberty, especially as the sheep was a black one. Plainly the sheep and the wolf are not agreed upon a definition of the word liberty; and precisely the same difference prevails to-day among us human creatures, even in the North, and all professing to love liberty. Hence we behold the processes by which thousands are daily passing from under the yoke of bondage, hailed by some as the advance of liberty, and bewailed by others as the destruction of all liberty. Recently, as it seems, the people of Maryland have been doing something to define liberty; and thanks to them that, in what they have done, the wolf's dictionary, has been repudiated. It is not very becoming for one in my position to make speeches at great length; but there is another subject upon which I feel that I ought to say a word. A painful rumor, true I fear, has reached us of the massacre, by the rebel forces, at Fort Pillow, in the West end of Tennessee, on the Mississippi river, of some three hundred colored soldiers and white officers, who had just been overpowered by their assailants.  There seems to be some anxiety in the public mind whether the government is doing it's duty to the colored soldier, and to the service, at this point. At the beginning of the war, and for some time, the use of colored troops was not contemplated; and how the change of purpose was wrought, I will not now take time to explain. Upon a clear conviction of duty I resolved to turn that element of strength to account; and I am responsible for it to the American people, to the christian world, to history, and on my final account to God. Having determined to use the negro as a soldier, there is no way but to give him all the protection given to any other soldier. The difficulty is not in stating the principle, but in practically applying it. It is a mistake to suppose the government is indiffe[re]nt to this matter, or is not doing the best it can in regard to it. We do not to-day know that a colored soldier, or white officer commanding colored soldiers, has been massacred by the rebels when made a prisoner. We fear it, believe it, I may say, but we do not know it. To take the life of one of their prisoners, on the assumption that they murder ours, when it is short of certainty that they do murder ours, might be too serious, too cruel a mistake. We are having the Fort-Pillow affair thoroughly investigated; and such investigation will probably show conclusively how the truth is. If, after all that has been said, it shall turn out that there has been no massacre at Fort-Pillow, it will be almost safe to say there has been none, and will be none elsewhere. If there has been the massacre of three hundred there, or even the tenth part of three hundred, it will be conclusively proved; and being so proved, the retribution shall as surely come. It will be matter of grave consideration in what exact course to apply the retribution; but in the supposed case, it must come.

Draft of Address for Sanitary Fair at Baltimore
[c. April 18, 1864]
Mr. Webster once stated the proposition that a President could not be so applauded, and ministered unto, when his term of office, and with it, his power to confer favors, drew near to it's close, as he had been in the hey-day of his inaugeration. To illustrate this, he said: ``Politicians---office-seekers---are not sun-flowers; they do not turn upon their god when he sets, the same look they gave when he rose.'' This may be a general truth; but, to my personal knowledge it is not particularly true in Baltimore. For intance, on the 22nd. or 23rd. of February 1861 (so near the end of one and the beginning of the other, as to be doubtful which) I passed through Baltimore, rich with honorable and fat offices, soon to be dispensed, and not one hand reached forth to greet me, not one voice broke the stillness to cheer me. Now, three years having past, and offices having passed away, Baltimore marks my coming, and cheers me when I come. Traitorous malice has sought to wrong Baltimore herein, ascribing to one cause what is justly due to another. For instance the Richmond,  alluding to that passage through Baltimore, said: ``We have no fear of any bold action by the federal government; we remember Baltimore, and our faith is unwavering in Lincoln's cowardice'' Now this is hugely unjust to Baltimore. I take it to be unquestionable that what happened here three years ago, and what happens here now, was contempt of office then, and is purely appreciation of merit now.

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 18, 1864.
Hon Ebenezer Dumont is very desirous that the fine of five hundred dollars assessed in the U.S. District Court of Indiana, against John Caldwell, for aiding a rescue, be remitted, said Caldwell having died, and the fine only operating upon his destitute family. If it be your opinion that the President has the legal power so to remit, please prepare the papers, or what is necessary to have it legally done. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please send nomination for Thomas A. Osborne, in place of McDowell resigned. A. LINCOLN April 18. 1864.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please examine & report upon this case. April 18, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Paul Frank
Col. Paul Frank of N.Y. 52nd. Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac Washington, April 18. 1864.
Is there, or has there been a man in your Regiment by the name of Cornelius Garvin;? and if so, answer me as far as you know, where he now is. A. LINCOLN

To Stephen Cabot
Officer in Military command, Executive Mansion at Fort-Warren. Washington, Boston-Harbor, Mass. April 20. 1864
If there is a man by the name of Charles Carpenter, under sentence of death for desertion, at Fort-Warren, suspend execution until further order, and send the record of his trial. If sentenced for any other offence, telegraph what it is, and when he is to be executed. Answer at all events. A. LINCOLN.

Endorsement
April 20, 1864
If the officer commanding this man's regiment, and the officer commanding his company will write on this paper that they desire him to rejoin his regiment, I will send him to them. A. LINCOLN April 20, 1864

Endorsement Concerning John Oberteuffer
[c. April 20, 1864]
I apprehend the re-organization of the Militia is a far larger job than Lieut. Col. Oberteuffer thinks. I could not enter upon it, now when I have not half time enough for other duties.

Pass for Miss E. Sharp

Allow Miss E. Sharp, an invalid to pass northward through our line and go to her parents in Norfolk, Va. A. LINCOLN April 20, 1864.

Note

Please ascertain whether the message sent by me yesterday to Fort Warren, Boston-Harbor was delivered. A. LINCOLN April 21, 1864

To Stephen Cabot
Officer in Military command Executive Mansion, at Fort-Warren Washington, Boston-Harbor, Mass. April 21, 1864.
The order I sent yesterday in regard to Charles Carpenter is hereby withdrawn, and you are to act as if it had never existed. A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major General Dix Executive Mansion New-York Washington, D.C. April 21. 1864
Yesterday I was induced to telegraph the officer in military command at Fort-Warren, Boston-Harbor, Massachusetts, suspending the execution of Charles Carpenter, to be executed to-morrow for desertion. Just now, on reading your order in the case, I telegraph the same officer withdrawing the suspension, and leaving the case entirely with you. The man's friends are pressing, me, but I refer them to you, intending to take no further action myself. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
April 21, 1864
This case is submitted to Gen. Meade to be disposed of by him, under the recent order  upon the subject. A. LINCOLN April 21. 1864 If Gen. Warren has recommended the discharge of this man, let him be discharged. A. LINCOLN Aug. 20. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 21, 1864
Please have General Halleck make the proper order in this case. Hon. Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir, Washington, April 21, 1864.
The accompanying letter & papers from Gov. Hahn, came to me with a letter of his to me, requesting me to read these and hand them to you. Shall we send him his Louisiana citizens named? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 21, 1864.
The Governors of Ohio Indiana, Illinois, and Iowa have just been with me; and I have made an engagement with them to meet you, Gen. Halleck and myself at 7. P.M. to-day, at this room. Please notify Gen. Halleck & you and he attend. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Mason Brayman
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Brig Gen Brayman. War Department, Comdg Cairo. Washington, D.C., April 22nd. 1864.
What day did General Corse part with Gen Banks? A. LINCOLN

To Albert G. Hodges
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, A. G. Hodges, Esq War Department, Frankfort, Ky Washington, D.C., April 22. 1864.
Did you receive my letter? A. LINCOLN

Order for Release of John Connor
April 22, 1864
Let this man, John Connor, go to his regiment; and upon his faithfully serving out his term, making up lost time, or until he is otherwise honorably discharged, he is pardoned for said desertion. April 22, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 22. 1864.
I infer, by Mr. Smith's pencil note that there may be some special reason for not discharging the five prisoners named on the accompanying paper. If so, lay the case aside till I see you. If not, let it take the usual course. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War, please see & hear Hon. Mr. Granger, of the last House of Representatives. A. LINCOLN April 22, 1864

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, April 23. 1864
Senator Ten-Eyck is very anxious to have a special exchange of Capt. Frank J. McLean, of 9th. Tennessee Cavalry, now, or lately, at Johnson's Island, for Capt. T. Ten-Eyck, 18th. U.S. Infantry, & now at Richmond. I would like to have it done. Can it be? A. LINCOLN.

To Gustavus V. Fox
[April 23, 1864]
I do not think I can go. Shall be glad if Captain Fox does. A. LINCOLN.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, April 23. 1864.
A lady---Mrs. Ward, sister of the late John M. Weimer---is here, saying she is banished from St. Louis, her home, and asking to be allowed to return on taking the oath and giving bond. It is exclusively with you to decide; but I will thank you to examine the case; and shall be glad if you find it consistent with your views to oblige her. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: April 23, 1864
I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of War, in answer to the Resolutions passed by the Senate in Executive session on the 14th. and 18th. of April, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, April 23d, 1864.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
To the Senate and House of Representatives. April 23, 1864
I transmit to Congress a copy of a note of the 19th. instant from Lord Lyons to the Secretary of State, on the subject of two British naval officers who recently received medical treatment at the Naval Hospital at Norfolk. The expediency of authorizing Surgeon Solomon Sharp to accept the piece of plate to which the note refers, as an acknowledgement of his services, is submitted to your consideration. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 23d, April, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, April 23, 1864.
My Dear Sir: According to our understanding with Major General Frank P. Blair, at the time he took his seat in Congress last winter, he now asks to withdraw his resignation as major general, then tendered, and be sent to the field. Let this be done. Let the order sending him be such as shown me to-day by the Adjutant General, only dropping from it the names of Maguire and Tompkins. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN. Hon. Secretary of War.

To Edwin M. Stanton

The foregoing proposition of the Governors is accepted, and the Secretary of War is directed to carry it into execution. April 23. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To John P. Gray
Dr. John P. Gray. Executive Mansion, Utica, New York. Washington. April 25, 1864.
Sir, Private Lorenzo Stewart, 14th regiment New York Volunteer Artillery, is in military custody at Elmira, New York, having been, by a military court, tried for murder, and sentenced to death, his execution awaiting the order of the President of the United States. The record is before me; and a question is made as to the sanity of the accused. You will please proceed to Elmira, New York, and take in writing, all evidence which may be offered on behalf of Private Stewart, and against him, and any, in addition, which you may find within your reach, and deem pertinent; all said evidence to be directed to the question of Private Stewart's sanity or insanity, and not to any other question; you to preside, with power to exclude evidence which shall appear to you clearly not pertinent to the question. When the taking of the evidence shall be closed, you will report the same to me, together with your own conclusions as to Private Stewart's sanity, both at the time of the homocide,  and at the time of your examination. On reaching Elmira, you will present this letter to the officer then commanding at that Post, and deliver to him a copy of the same, upon which he is hereby directed to notify Clinton Rice, Esqr. and F. B. Swift, Esqr., No. 200 Broadway, New York, of the same; to designate some suitable person in his command to appear for the Government as Judge Advocate, or Prosecuting Attorney: to provide for the attendance of all such witnesses before you as may be desired by either party, or by yourself, and who may be within convenient reach of you; to furnish you a suitable place, or places, for conducting the examination; and to render you such other reasonable assistance in the premises as you may require. If you deem it proper you will examine Private Stewart personally, and you may, in your discretion, require him to be present during the whole, or any part, of the taking of the evidence. The military are hereby charged to see that an escape does not occur. Yours Very Truly, A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

If this Petition is true, as it probably is, these men should be pardoned. Can the J.A.G. throw any light upon it? A. LINCOLN April 25. 1864

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, War Department, Army of Potomac: Washington City, April 25, 1864.
A Mr. Corby brought you a note from me at the foot of a petition I believe, in the case of Dawson, to be executed to-day. The record has been examined here, and it shows too strong a case for a pardon or commutation. unless there is something in the poor man's favor outside of the record, which you on the ground may know, but I do not. My note to you only means that if you know of any such thing rendering a suspension of the execution proper, on your own judgment, you are at liberty to suspend it. Otherwise I do not interfere. A. LINCOLN.

Order for Discharge of F. P. Beidler
April 25, 1864
Upon the personal application of Hon. W. R. Morrison & Hon. F. C. Beaman,  and on the case within stated, which I believe to be true, let F. P. Beidler, within named be discharged. April 25. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Sec. of Navy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, April 25, 1864.
Francis A. Hoffmann our Lieut. Governor of Illinois. has an application on file for his son Francis to be appointed to the Naval School, but finds he is too old. He therefore wishes to substitute the name of a younger son---Julius Hoffmann,---who is now but sixteen. I wish this appointment made so soon as it can be consistently with what I have already said in other cases. Please keep me reminded of it Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John Williams
War Department John Williams, Washington City, Springfield, Ills. April 25 1864
Yours of the 15th. is just received. Thanks for your kind remembrance. I would accept your offer at once, were it not that I fear there might be some impropriety in it, though I do not see that there would. I will think of it a while. A. LINCOLN

To John R. Woods
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir Washington, April 25, 1864.
I regret that I cannot be present at the inauguration of your Soldiers Home this week. Accept my thanks for your kind invitation and believe me, very truly Your Obedient Servant John R. Woods Esq A. LINCOLN

To George H. Thomas
Major General Thomas Executive Mansion, Chattanooga, Tennessee Washington, April 26, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of young Perry from Wisconsin condemned for sleeping on his post, until further orders, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Maj Eckert Please send the above dispatch JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv. Sec.

Endorsement Concerning Herman Huidekoper
April 27, 1864
I know nothing of the young man within named, except by hearsay, which is all in his favor. His brother Lt-Col. Huidekoper, who lost an arm at Gettysburg, I do know, and for his sake I would be very glad for the advancement of the young man. April 27, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, D.C., April 27, 1864.
Your dispatch about Private Peter Gilner received. Dispose of him precisely as you would under the recent order, if he were under sentence of death for desertion, and execution suspended by me. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, April 27, 1864.
John J. Stefke [Siefke], Company I, First New Jersey Cavalry, having a substitute, is ordered to be discharged. Please have him sent here to Washington. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum Concerning Joseph L. Savage
[c. April 27, 1864]
Presented by the Mayor of Washington Peter Force 	Thomas P. Morgan 	Valentine Blanchard John H. Simms 	B. F. Guy. 	John F. Ennis Lewis Johnson 	E. C. Dyer 	Wm. E. Spaulding William Orme 	H. A. Chadwick 	James Skivving[?] Francis Mohan 	Wm. O'Brien 	R. C. Johnson- Wm. B Todd 	James Kelly 	Geo. Savage Geo. H. Plant 	Patrick Cowley

To Isaac Murphy
Governor Murphy Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Little-Rock, War Department, Arkansas. Washington, D.C., April 27. 1864.
I am much gratified to learn that you got out so large a vote, so nearly all the right way, at the late election; and not less so, that your State-Government, including the Legislature, is organized, and in good working order. Whatever I can, I will do, to protect you; meanwhile you must do your utmost to protect yourselves. Present my greeting to all A LINCOLN

Endorsement
April 28, 1864
I shall be glad for the Regiment to be filled; and am quite willing that recruits may be obtained therefor in West Virginia. . . .

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives April 28, 1864
In obedience to the Resolution of your Honorable body, a copy of which is herewith returned, I have the honor to make the following brief statement which is believed to contain the information sought. Prior to, and at the meeting of the present Congress, Robert C. Schenck, of Ohio, and Frank P.Blair, Jr. of Missouri, members elect thereto, by and with the consent of the Senate, held commissions from the Executive, as Major Generals in the Volunteer Army. Gen. Schenck tendered the resignation of his said commission and took his seat in the House of Representatives, at the assembling thereof, upon the distinct verbal understanding with the Secretary of war and the Executive, that he might, at any time during the session, at his own pleasure, withdraw said resignation, and return to the field. Gen. Blair was, by temporary assignment of Gen. Sherman, in command of a corps, through the battles in front of Chattanooga, and in the march to the relief of Knoxville, which occurred in the latter days of November, and early days of December last; and, of course was not present at the assembling of Congress. When he subsequently arrived here, he sought, and was allowed, by the Secretary of War and the Executive, the same conditions, and promise, as allowed and made to Gen. Schenck. Gen. Schenck has not applied to withdraw his resignation; but when Gen. Grant was made Lieut. General, producing some change of commanders, Gen. Blair sought to be assigned to the command of a corps. This was made known to Generals Grant and Sherman and assented to by them, and the particular corps for him designated. This was all arranged and understood, as now remembered, so much as a month ago; but the formal withdrawal of Gen. Blair's resignation, and making the order assigning him to the command of the corps, were not consummated at the War Department until last week---perhaps on the 23rd. of April, Inst. As a summary of the whole it may be stated that Gen. Blair holds no military commission or appointment, other than as herein stated; and that it is believed he is now acting as a Major General upon the assumed validity of the commission herein stated, in connection with the facts herein stated, and not otherwise. There are some letters, notes, telegrams, orders, entries, and perhaps other documents, in connection with this subject, which it is believed would throw no additional light upon it; but which will be cheerfully furnished, if desired. ABRAHAM LINCOLN April 28. 1864.

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Executive Mansion, Metropolitan Hotel Washington, New-York. April 28. 1864.
The draft will go to you. Tell Tad the goats and father are very well---especially the goats. A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, April 28, 1864.
If Private George W. Sloan, of the Seventy-second Pennsylvania Volunteers, is under sentence of death for desertion, suspend execution till further order. A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
To the Honorable, the Senate, and April 28, 1864
House of Representatives, I have the honor to transmit herewith an Address to the President of the United States, and through him, to both Houses of Congress, on the condition and wants of the people of East Tennessee, and asking their attention to the necessity of some action on the part of the Government for their relief---and which address is presented by a committee of an organization called ``The East Tennessee Relief Association.''  Deeply commiserating the condition of these most loyal and suffering people, I am unprepared to make any specific recommendation for their relief. The Military is doing, and will continue to do the best for them within its power. Their address represents that the construction of direct Railroad communication between Knoxville and Cincinnati, by way of central Kentucky would be of great consequence in the present emergency. It may be remembered that in the annual Message of December, 1861, such Railroad construction was recommended. I now add that with the hearty concurrence of Congress, I would yet be pleased to construct the road, both for the relief of these people, and for its continuing military importance. ABRAHAM LINCOLN April 28, 1864

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Washington, Whom It May Concern April 28, 1864.
Charles G. Russell comes to me voluntarily saying he is a private in Co. B. in the 12th Iowa Regiment, and saying he is apprehensive of being arrested and punished as a deserter. Now, on condition that he rejoins his Regiment, and re-enlists with it, and serves out said re-enlistment, or until honorably discharged, for any cause, he is fully pardoned for said supposed desertion. A. LINCOLN.

To Mason Brayman
Gen. Brayman Executive Mansion, Cairo, Ills. Washington, April 29, 1864.
I am appealed to in behalf of O. Kellogg, and J. W. Pryor, both in prison at Cairo. Please telegraph me what are the charges, and summary of evidence against them. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

At the request of Hon. E. H. Rollins, and in consideration that Lieut. Snell has already suffered severely, the sentence is remitted. April 29. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. April 29, 1864
In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the 27th. instant, requesting information in regard to the condition of affairs in the Territory, of Nevada, I transmit a copy of a letter of the 25th. of last month addressed to the Secretary of State by James W. Nye, the Governor of that Territory. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 29th. April, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
April 29, 1864
Private Daniel P. Clark of 19th Conn. Vols. under sentence for desertion, suspended for action of President, is fully pardoned on condition that he enters and faithfully serves through a new enlistment of three years.

Endorsements Concerning Julius Silversmith
April 30, 1864
I do not personally know Mr. Silversmith but Senator Conness who writes the above is habitually careful not to say what he does not know. A. LINCOLN April 30, 1864. Not personally knowing Mr. Silversmith I cheerfully endorse what Governor Nye says of him. A. LINCOLN April 30, 1864.

To James R. Fry
Executive Mansion My Dear Sir April 30. 1864
I thank you heartily for the kind invitation conveyed in your letter of the 26th. and sincerely regret that I cannot make a positive engagement to avail myself of it. My time is subject to such constant and unexpected requisitions that I cannot unreservedly accept any such pleasure as that you offer me, at this distance of time. I shall be most happy to be present at an entertainment which promises so much, especially as it is in aid of so beneficent a charity as that in which you are interested, if my engagements next week will allow it. But I must beg that you will make no special arrangements in view of my presence, as I may be disappointed. If I can come, I will notify you as early as possible. Yours very truly [A. LINCOLN.]

Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion Washington, Lieutenant General Grant. April 30, 1864
Not expecting to see you again before the Spring campaign opens, I wish to express, in this way, my entire satisfaction with what you have done up to this time, so far as I understand it. The particulars of your plans I neither know, or seek to know. You are vigilant and self-reliant; and, pleased with this, I wish not to obtrude any constraints or restraints upon you. While I am very anxious that any great disaster, or the capture of our men in great numbers, shall be avoided, I know these points are less likely to escape your attention than they would be mine. If there is anything wanting which is within my power to give, do not fail to let me know it. And now with a brave Army, and a just cause, may God sustain you. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Nathan Kimball
Officer in Command at Executive Mansion, Little Rock, Ark. Washington, April 30. 1864.
Please send me the record of trial for desertion of Thadeus A. Kinsloe of Co. D. 7th. Missouri Vol. Cavalry. A LINCOLN

Order for Exchange of H. H. Brogden
April 30, 1864
Let H. H. Brogden, now in prison at Fort Delaware, be sent to Major Mulford, at City-Point, to be exchanged for any one of same rank held a prisoner by the rebels. A. LINCOLN April 30. 1864

Order for Pardon of Sioux Indians
April 30, 1864
List of Indian prisoners now in confinement at Camp McClellan near Davenport Iowa pardoned and to be liberated and sent to their families Tapeta Tanka 	Wiyaka 	Tunkanhuamani Tahohpi wakan 	Kimyan hiotan 	Boyaya Wakanhotito 	Oye Muza 	Iyasamani Tate sica 	Cinkpa tawa 	Icawtuze Wiyuha 	Tunkan Canholiska 	Manikiya Tunkan Oyate yanka 	Wakan inapedan alias 	Ahotonna Pantaninniye 	Muza kiyemani 	Maza adidi Contidoka duta 	Kalpantpan ku 	Tate Ibomdu Kimyan hiyaya 	Tahokaye The persons named on this list are pardoned and ordered to be sent to their families or relatives. A. LINCOLN April 30, 1864

To Francis W. Kellogg
Hon. F. W. Kellogg. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, May 1 1864.
I find the card of yourself and Governor Blair on my table. If you and he please I will call and take you riding at half past 3. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To the California Delegation in Congress
California Delegation Executive Mansion, in Congress--- Washington, May 2. 1864.
Will you gentlemen please take this case off my hands? I really have no time to acquaint myself with it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
May 2, 1864
To the honorable the House of Representatives: In compliance with the request contained in your resolution of the 29th ultimo, a copy of which resolution is herewith returned, I have the honor to transmit the following: [ Executive Document No. 80 here prints: Lincoln to Montgomery Blair, November 2, 1863 ( vide supra ); Robert C. Schenck to Stanton forwarding resignation, November 13, 1863; Edward D. Townsend, November 21, 1863, to Schenck, accepting resignation; Francis P. Blair, Jr. to Lincoln, January 1, 1864, ``I hereby tender my resignation as a major general of the United States Volunteers''; James A. Hardie to Blair, January 12, 1864, accepting resignation; Lincoln to Grant, re Blair, March 15, 1864 ( vide supra ); Grant to Lincoln re telegram, March 16, 1864; Grant to Lincoln re telegram, March 17, 1864; John A. Logan to Lincoln, asking to be retained in Fifteenth Corps, March 26, 1864; Grant to Sherman, March 30, 1864, directing Blair to be assigned to Seventeenth Corps; Grant to Halleck, April 9, 1864, asking if Blair has been sent to Sherman; Blair to Lincoln, April 20, 1864, asking to be assigned immediately to command of Seventeenth Corps, endorsed by Lincoln to Stanton, April 21, 1864 ( vide supra ); Lincoln to Stanton, April 23, 1864 ( vide supra ); Blair to Stanton, April 23, 1864, withdrawing his resignation of January 12, 1864; AGO General Orders No. 178 , assigning Blair to command of Seventeenth Corps.] The foregoing constitutes all sought by the resolution, so far as is remembered, or has been found upon diligent search. May 2. 1864 ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
Major General Hurlbut. Executive Mansion My Dear Sir. Washington May 2d. 1864
Gen Farnsworth has just been reading to me from your letter to him of the 26th. ult. I snatch a moment to say that my friendship and confidence for you remains unabated, but that Gen's Grant & Thomas  cannot be held to their just responsibilities. if they are not allowed to control in the class of cases to which yours belongs. From one stand point a court of Inquiry is most just, but if your case were my own, I would not allow Gen's Grant and Sherman [to] be diverted by it just now. Yours Truly A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Alonzo Sheffield
May 2, 1864
Upon a good man being furnished by Alonzo Sheffield, within named, and mustered into the service for the term of three years, said Sheffield is fully pardoned for any supposed desertion. May 2, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Cabinet Members
Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, May 3, 1864.
It is now quite certain that a large number of our colored soldiers, with their white officers, were, by the rebel force, massacred after they had surrendered, at the recent capture of Fort-Pillow. So much is known, though the evidence is not yet quite ready to be laid before me. Meanwhile I will thank you to prepare, and give me in writing your  opinion as to what course, the government should take in the case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning William W. White
May 3, 1864
The within order of dismissal is revoked, if no successor to Captain White has been appointed; and if such successor has been appointed, then the order is modified to be an honorable discharge. May 3. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Secretary of State Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, May 3., 1864.
Please invite all members of the Cabinet to be [present at the meeting today. Yours truly. A. LINCOLN]

To William T. Sherman
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Sherman War Department, Chattanooga, Tenn. Washington, D.C., May 4. 1864.
I have an imploring appeal in behalf of the citizens who say your order No. 8 will compel them to go North of Nashville. This is in no sense, an order; nor is it even a request that you will do any thing which in the least, shall be a drawback upon your military operations, but any thing you can do consistently with those operations, for those suffering people, I shall be glad of A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Abner Bartlett
Mrs. Abner Bartlett Executive Mansion, My dear Madam. Washington, May 5, 1864.
I have received the very excellent pair of socks of your own knitting, which you did me the honor to send. I accept them as a very comfortable article to wear; but more gratefully as an evidence, of the patriotic devotion which, at your advanced age, you bear to our great and just cause. May God give you yet many happy days. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase and Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, 5th May, 1864.
The Secretaries of the Treasury and of War, are hereby authorized and required, so far to relax the order pro[hi]biting the exportation of horses from the United States, as to allow the exportation of such horses, as have been bought for the personal use of the Emperor of the French and the Captain General of Cuba. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To John A. J. Creswell
Hon. Jno. A. J. Creswell Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, May 5, 1864.
I shall be pleased to receive the gentlemen named at 2. P.M. today. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion May 5. 1864
Let the disability now resting upon Surgeon McLetchie be removed so that he be rendered eligible for reappointment. A. LINCOLN.

Remarks at Marine Band Concert
May 7, 1864
Ladies and gentlemen, you, no doubt, desire to have a speech from me. In lieu of a speech, I propose that we give three cheers for Major General Grant and all the armies under his command.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. May 7, 1864
In compliance with the request contained in a resolution of the Senate, dated April 30. 1864, I herewith transmit to your honorable body a copy of the opinion by the Attorney General on the rights of colored persons in the army or volunteer service of the United States, together with the accompanying papers. May 7, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I have given nothing to any reporter A. LINCOLN May 7. 1864

To Hiram Barney
Hon. Hiram Barney. May 9, 1864
My dear Sir The bearer, Lt. Millard, wishes to apply to you for some place in the Custom-House; and while I do not personally know much of him, the within, & other vouchers leave no doubt in my mind that he is entirely worthy, & I shall be really pleased if you can find a place for him. A. LINCOLN May 9. 1864

To the Friends of Union and Liberty
Executive Mansion, Washington, To the friends of Union & Liberty. May 9, 1864.
Enough is known of Army operations within the last five days to claim our especial gratitude to God; while what remains undone demands our most sincere prayers to, and reliance upon, Him, without whom, all human effort is vain. I recommend that all patriots, at their homes, in their places of public worship, and wherever they may be, unite in common thanksgiving and prayer to Almighty God. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Mrs. Sarah B. Meconkey
Mrs. Sarah B. Meconkey. Executive Mansion, Madam: Washington, May 9. 1864.
Our mutual friend, Judge Lewis tells me you do me the honor to inquire for my personal welfare. I have been very anxious for some days in regard to our armies in the field, but am considerably cheered, just now, by favorable news from them. I am sure you will join me in the hope for their further success; while yourself, and other good, mothers, wives, sisters, and daughters, do all you and they can, to relieve and comfort the gallant soldiers who compose them. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Response to Serenade
May 9, 1864.
FELLOW-CITIZENS: I am very much obliged to you for the compliment of this call, though I apprehend it is owing more to the good news received to-day from the army than to a desire to see me. I am, indeed, very grateful to the brave men who have been struggling with the enemy in the field, to their noble commanders who have directed them, and especially to our Maker. Our commanders are following up their victories resolutely and successfully. I think, without knowing the particulars of the plans of Gen. Grant, that what has been accomplished is of more importance than at first appears. I believe I know, (and am especially grateful to know) that Gen. Grant has not been jostled in his purposes; that he has made all his points, and to-day he is on his line as he purposed before he moved his armies. I will volunteer to say that I am very glad at what has happened; but there is a great deal still to be done. While we are grateful to all the brave men and officers for the events of the past few days, we should, above all, be very grateful to Almighty God, who gives us victory. There is enough yet before us requiring all loyal men and patriots to perform their share of the labor and follow the example of the modest General at the head of our armies, and sink all personal considerations for the sake of the country. I commend you to keep yourselves in the same tranquil mood that is characteristic of that brave and loyal man. I have said more than I expected when I came before you; repeating my thanks for this call, I bid you good-bye. [Cheers.]

To William H. Seward
May 9, 1864
I believe Mr. Snow is a good man; but two things need to be remembered. 1s. Mr. Roger's rival was a relative of Mr. Snow. 2nd. I hear of nobody calling Mr. Rogers a Copperhead but Mr Snow. However, let us watch. A. L. May 9, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 9, 1864
Secy of War please see Chaplain Bristow.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, May 10, 1864.
Let Private Thomas Lowery of Co. G. 11th New-Jersey Vols, now in hospital at Philadelphia, be discharged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Lewis Wallace
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major Gen. Wallace War Department, Baltimore. Washington, D.C., May 10 1864.
Please tell me what is the trouble with Dr. Hawks. Also, please ask Bishop Whittington to give me his view of the case. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out pardons for these two boys. May 11. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Christian IX
May 11, 1864
Abraham Lincoln President of the United States of America To His Majesty Christian IX. King of Denmark Great & Good Friend. I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 7th of last month, announcing the decease on the 28th of the preceding month, of Her Royal Highness Madam the Landgrave Louise Charlotte of Hesse consort of His Highness the Landgrave William. I deeply sympathise in the grief which has been occasioned by this sad event and I offer to Your Majesty my sincere condolence. May God have your Majesty always in his safe and holy keeping Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington. 11th. May. 1864. By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, May 11. 1864.
Complaints are coming to me of disturbances in Carroll, Platte & Buchanan counties. Please ascertain the truth, correct what is found wrong, and telegraph me. A. LINCOLN

To John Birely
Executive Mansion, Washington, My Dear Sir May 12, 1864.
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 11th May and the accompanying cane. I beg that you will accept the assurance of my cordial gratitude for your kindness. I am very truly Your Obedient Servant A. LINCOLN John Birely Esq (Birely & Son) Philadelphia

To F. B. Loomis
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 12, 1864.
My Dear Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 28th April, in which you offer to replace the present garrison of Fort Trumbull with volunteers, which you propose to raise at your own expense. While it seems inexpedient at this time to accept this proposition, on account of the special duties now devolving upon the garrison mentioned, I cannot pass unnoticed such a meritorious instance of individual patriotism. Permit me, for the Government, to express my cordial thanks to you for this generous and public-spirited offer, which is worthy of note among the many called forth in these times of national trial. I am very truly your obedient servant. A. LINCOLN. F. B. Loomis, Esq.

To Samuel C. Pomeroy
Hon. Senator Pomeroy Executive Mansion Sir--- Washington May 12. 1864
I did not doubt yesterday that you desired to see me about the appointment of Assessor in Kansas. I wish you and Lane would make a sincere effort to get out of the mood you are in. I[t] does neither of you any good---it gives you the means of tormenting my life out of me, and nothing else. Yours &c A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. May 12, 1864
In answer to the Resolution of the Senate of the 9th. instant, requesting a copy of correspondence relative to a controversy between the Republic of Chile and Bolivia, I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State, to whom the Resolution was referred. Washington, 12 May, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning a Church at Memphis, Tennessee
May 13, 1864
I believe it is true that with reference to the church within named I wrote as follows: ``If  the Military have Military need of the church building, let them keep it ; otherwise let them get out of it , and leave it and it's owners alone, except for causes that justify the arrest of any one.'' March 4. 1864. A. LINCOLN'' I am now told that the Military were not in possession of the building; and yet that in pretended execution of the above they, the Military put one set of men out of and another set into the building. This, if true, is most extraordinary. I say again, if there be no military need for the building, leave it alone, neither putting any one in or out, of it, except on finding some one preaching or practicing treason, in which case lay hands upon him just as if he were doing the same thing in any other building, or in the streets or highways. A. LINCOLN May 13. 1864

To Lewis Wallace
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Wallace War Department, Baltimore, Md. Washington, D.C., May 13. 1864.
I was very anxious to avoid new excitements at places where quiet seemed to be restored; but after reading, and considering, your letter and inclosure, I have to say I leave you to act your careful discretion in the matter. The good news this morning I hope will have a good effect all round.  A. LINCOLN

To Thomas Carney
May 14, 1864
The within letter is, to my mind, so obviously intended as a page for a political record, as to be difficult to answer in a straight-forward business-like way. The merits of the Kansas people need not to be argued to me. They are just as good as any other loyal and patriotic people; and, as such, to the best of my ability, I have always treated them, and intend to treat them. It is not my recollection that I said to you Senator Lane would probably oppose raising troops in Kansas, because it would confer patronage upon you. What I did say was that he would probably oppose it because he and you were in a mood of each opposing whatever the other should propose. I did argue generally too, that, in my opinion, there is not a more foolish or demoralizing way of conducting a political rivalry, than these fierce and bitter struggles for patronage. As to your demand that I will accept or reject your proposition to furnish troops, made to me yesterday, I have to say I took the proposition under advisement, in good faith, as I believe you know; that you can withdraw it if you wish, but that while it remains before me, I shall neither accept or reject it, until, with reference to the public interest, I shall feel that I am ready. Yours truly May 14, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Roberts
Officer in Military Command at Executive Mansion Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, May 14. 1864
If Thomas Dorerty, or Welsh, is to be executed to-day, and it is not already done, suspend it till further order A LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate Executive Mansion, of the United States. Washington, May 14. 1864
I transmit, herewith, a report of the Secretary of the Interior, of the 14th instant, and accompanying papers, in answer to a resolution of the Senate of the 14th ultimo, in the following words, viz: ``Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested to communicate to the Senate the reasons, if any exist, why the refugee Indians in the State of Kansas, are not returned to their homes.'' ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Allison C. Poorman
May 15, 1864
Indorsed The writer of the within is a family connection of mine, & a worthy man; and I shall be obliged if he be allowed what he requests, so far as the rules and exigencies of the public service will permit. A LINCOLN May 15. 1864

Endorsement Concerning William F. Shriver
May 15. 1864
Indorsed The writer of this is personally unknown to me, though married to a young relative of mine. I shall be obliged if he be allowed what he requests so far as the rules and exigencies of the public service will permit. A. LINCOLN May 15. 1864

To Orville H. Browning

Will Mr. Browning please look at the card just sent Mr. Ewing? May 16, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To L. J. Cist
L. J. Cist, Executive Mansion, Chairman &c. Washington, May 16. 1864.
Dear Sir A letter of yours to Hon. Mr. blow, requesting an autograph note of mine for the benefit of the Mississippi Valley Sanitary Fair, has been laid before me. I am glad to give it, in the hope that it may contribute, in some small degree at least, to the relief and comfort of our brave soldiers. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Thomas Ewing

Respects to Mr. Ewing; but I am not ready to decide his cases, & I do not wish him to come in [and] scold about it. A. LINCOLN May 16. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 16, 1864
Genl. Curtis had better be asked to look to it.

Order for Draft of 300,000 Men
Executive Mansion, Washington, D. C. May 17. 1864.
To increase the active and reserved force of the Army, Navy, & Marine Corps of the United States, a call is hereby made, & a draft ordered for three hundred thousand men to serve for the period of---unless sooner discharged. The proportional quotas for the different wards, towns, townships, precincts, or election districts, or counties, will be made known through the Provost Marshal General's Bureau, & account will be taken of the credits & deficiencies on former quotas. The 1st. day of July 1864 is designated as the time up to which the numbers required from each ward of a city, town, &c, may be raised by voluntary enlistment, & drafts will be made in each ward of city, town, &c, which shall not have filled the quota assigned to it within the time designated, for the number required to fill said quotas. The drafts will be commenced as soon after the 1st. of July as practicable. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Joseph Roberts
Officer in command at Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, May 17, 1864.
If there is a man by the name of William H. H. Cummings, of Co. H. 24th. Mass. Volunteers, within your command, under sentence of death for desertion, suspend execution till further order. A LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: May 17, 1864
I herewith lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty concluded on the 7th instant, in this city, between William P. Dole, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and Clark W. Thompson, superintendent of Indian affairs, Northern Superintendency, on the part of the United States, and the chief Hole-in-the-day and Mis-qua-dace for and on behalf of the Chippewas of the Mississippi, and the Pillager and Lake Winnebagoshish bands of Chippewa Indians in Minnesota. A communication from the Secretary of the Interior of the 17th instant, with a statement and copies of reports of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs of the 12th and 17th instants, accompany the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive mansion, Washington, May 17, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, May 17, 1864.
I rather think I have said before, and at all events I say now. I would like for Rev Dr. Robert L. Stanton, of the Theological Seminary at Danville, Ky, to be a Visitor to West-Point, if there be no great obstacle in the way. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War: Executive Mansion Sir. Washington, D. C. May 17. 1864
Please notify the insurgents, through the proper military channels and forms, that the government of the United States has satisfactory proof of the massacre, by insurgent forces, at Fort-Pillow, on the 12th. and 13th. days of April last, of fully white and colored officers and soldiers of the United States, after the latter had ceased resistance, and asked quarter of the former. That with reference to said massacre. the government of the United States has assigned and set apart by name insurgent officers, theretofore, and up to that time, held by said government as prisoners of war. That, as blood can not restore blood, and government should not act for revenge, any assurance, as nearly perfect as the case admits, given on or before the first day of July next, that there shall be no similar massacre, nor any officer or soldier of the United States, whether white or colored, now held, or hereafter captured by the insurgents, shall be treated other than according to the laws of war, will insure the replacing of said insurgent officers in the simple condition of prisoners of war. That the insurgents having refused to exchange, or to give any account or explanation in regard to colored soldiers of the United States captured by them, a number of insurgent prisoners equal to the number of such colored soldiers supposed to have been captured by said insurgents will, from time to time, be assigned and set aside, with reference to such captured colored soldiers, and will, if the insurgents assent, be exchanged for such colored soldiers; but that if no satisfactory attention shall be given to this notice, by said insurgents, on or before the first day of July next, it will be assumed by the government of the United States, that said captured colored troops shall have been murdered, or subjected to Slavery, and that said government will, upon said assumption, take such action as may then appear expedient and just.

To Benjamin F. Butler
``Cypher'' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Butler. War Department, Bermuda Hundreds, Va Washington, D. C., May 18. 1864.
Until receiving your despatch of yesterday, the idea of Commissions in the Volunteers expiring at the end of three years had not occurred to me. I think no trouble will come of it; and, at all events, I shall take care of it so far as in me lies. As to the Major Generalships in the Regular Army I think I shall not dispose of another, at least until the combined operations now in progress under direction of Gen. Grant, and within which yourself and command are included, shall be terminated. Meanwhile, on behalf of yourself, officers, and men, please accept my hearty thanks for what you and they have so far done. A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
May 18, 1864
I have issued no proclamation lately, I signed a very modest papers last night for the Sec. of War, about drafting 300.000 in July, as I remember, but the document now rampant at New York is a forgery. A. LINCOLN. May 18. 1864

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Secretary of the Treasury: Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, May 18, 1864.
Evening before last two gentlemen called on me, and talked so earnestly about financial matters, as to set me thinking of them a little more particularly since. And yet only one idea has occurred, which I think worth while even to suggest to you. It is this: Suppose you change your five per cent loan to six, allowing the holders of the fives already out to convert them into sixes, upon taking each an equal additional amount at six. You will understand, better than I all the reasons pro and con , among which probably will be, the rise of the rate of interest in Europe. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To John A. Dix
To Maj. Gen'l Dix, Executive Mansion, Commanding, at New York .--- Washington, May 18. 1864.
Whereas, there has been wickedly and traitorously printed and published this morning, in the `` New York World '' and New York `` Journal of Commerce ,'' newspapers printed and published in the city of New York,---a false and spurious proclamation, purporting to be signed by the President, and to be countersigned by the Secretary of State, which publication is of a treasonable nature, designed to give aid and comfort to the enemies of the United States, and to the rebels now at war against the Government, and their aiders and abettors: you are therefore hereby commanded forthwith to arrest and imprison in any fort or military prison in your command, the editors, proprietors and publishers of the aforesaid newspapers, and all such persons as, after public notice has been given of the falsehood of said publication, print and publish the same, with intent to give aid and comfort to the enemy;---and you will hold the persons so arrested, in close custody, until they can be brought to trial before a military commission, for their offense. You will also take possession by military force, of the printing establishments of the `` New York World ,'' and `` Journal of Commerce ,'' and hold the same until further order, and prevent any further publication therefrom. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. General Grant Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac Washington, May 18, 1864.
An elderly gentleman---Dr. Winston---is here, saying he is well acquainted with the ground you are on, and trying to get on, and having letters from Gov. Morton, Senator Lane, and one from your Father, and asking to be allowed to go to you. Shall we allow him to go to you? A. LINCOLN

To Thomas H. Hicks
May 18, 1864.
If Governor Hicks will examine this case, and say in writing below this he thinks Mr. Sherberne should be pardoned, I will pardon him. A. LINCOLN May 18, 1864.

Response to Methodists
Gentlemen. May 18, 1864.
In response to your address, allow me to attest the accuracy of it's historical statements; indorse the sentiments it expresses; and thank you, in the nation's name, for the sure promise it gives. Nobly sustained as the government has been by all the churches, I would utter nothing which might, in the least, appear invidious against any. Yet, without this, it may fairly be said that the Methodist Episcopal Church, not less devoted than the best, is, by it's greater numbers, the most important of all. It is no fault in others that the Methodist Church sends more soldiers to the field, more nurse to the hospital, and more prayers to Heaven than any. God bless the Methodist Church---bless all the churches---and blessed be God, Who, in this our great trial, giveth us the churches. May 18, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Richard Yates
His Excy. Richd Yates Executive Mansion, Springfield Illinois Washington, May 18, 1864.
If any such proclamation has appeared, it is a forgery. A LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. Andrew Johnson War Department, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, D.C., May 19 1864.
Yours of the 17th. was received yesterday. Will write you on the subject within a day or two A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Revoking Recognition of Charles Hunt
May 19, 1864
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To all whom it may concern: An Exequatur bearing date the third day of May, 1850, having been issued to Charles Hunt, a citizen of the United States, recognizing him as Consul of Belgium, for Saint Louis, Missouri, and declaring him free to exercise and enjoy such functions, powers, and privileges, as are allowed to the Consuls of the most favored nations in the United States; and the said Hunt having sought to screen himself from his military duty to his country in consequence of thus being invested with the Consular functions of a foreign power in the United States, it is deemed advisable that the said Charles Hunt should no longer be permitted to continue in the exercise of said functions, powers, and privileges: These are, therefore, to declare, that I no longer recognize the said Charles Hunt as Consul of Belgium for Saint Louis, Missouri, and will not permit him to exercise or enjoy any of the functions, powers or privileges allowed to Consuls of that Nation; and that I do hereby wholly revoke and annul the said Exequatur heretofore given, and do declare the same to be absolutely null and void, from this day forward. In testimony whereof, I have caused these letters to be made patent, and the Seal of the United States of America to be hereunto affixed. Given under my hand at Washington, this Nineteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord 1864, and the Independence of the United States of America the Eighty-eighth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

Endorsement Concerning William B. Slack

Presented by Gov. Newell in behalf Major Slack for Commandant of Marine Corps. Gov. Newell recommends in highest terms. May 20, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine & report upon this case. May 20. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Alfred Mackay
Alfred Mackay Executive Mansion, Sec. of Fair Washington, St. Louis, Mo. May 20, 1864.
Your despatch received. Thanks for your greeting, and congratulations for the successful opening of your Fair. Our soldiers are doing well, and must, and will be well done by. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Josiah W. Morris
Executive Mansion, Washington, May 20. 1864.
To-day Mr. Thomas E. Morris of New-Jersey calls and asks that his son, Josiah W. Morris, born Aug. 17. 1844, be appointed a Cadet. He entered the Anderson Troupe, now 15th. Penn. Cavalry ---in Sep. 1862, where he has remained and still is, and is one of the boys recommended by Gen. Rosecrans for West-Point

Order Concerning Trade
May 20, 1864
No person engaged in trade, and proceeding in strict accordance with the published Regulations of the Treasury Department, upon that subject, and promulgated according to the Regulation numbered LVI, and being the last on page 6, to the left opposite this , shall be hindered or delayed therein, by the Army or Navy, or any person or persons connected therewith. A. LINCOLN May 20, 1864

To Felix Schmedding
Felix Schmedding Executive Mansion St. Louis, Mo. Washington, May 20. 1864
The pleasure of attending your fair is not within my power. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War. Please provide for Dr. Winston going forward according to the within. A. LINCOLN May 20, 1864.

To Edward Bates
Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, May 21st. 1864.
The Bill for Montana has passed, and I will thank you to have the applications for offices there, which are in your Department, briefed at once. Yours truly. A. LINCOLN Hon. Attorney General

Endorsement Concerning Miss Gilbert
May 21, 1864
These are very excellent testimonials, & I shall be glad for this [woman] to get a place, if it can be [done] consistently with the service. A. LINCOLN May 21. 1864

To Gustavus V. Fox

Capt. Fox , please see and hear the bearer, Mr. Sawyer. May 21, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Oliver P. Morton
Executive Mansion, Gov. O. P. Morton. Washington, May 21, 1864.
The getting forward of hundred day troops to sustain Gen. Sherman's lengthening lines promises much good. Please put your best efforts into the work. A. LINCOLN Same to Governor Yates---Springfield. Stone---Davenport. Lewis---Madison.

To Christiana A. Sack
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Christiana A. Sack War Department, Baltimore, Md. Washington, D.C., May 21 1864.
I can not postpone the execution of a convicted spy, on a mere telegraphic despatch signed with a name I never heared before. Gen. Wallace may give you a pass to see him, if he chooses. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, May 21., 1864.
The Bill for Montana has passed, and I will thank you to have the applications for offices there, which are in your Department, briefed at once. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To---Stansbury
War Department Mr Stansbury Washington City U.S. San Com May 21 1864
Principal Musician John A Burke 14th U.S Infy has permission to accompany Capt W. R. Smedburg 14th Infy. (wounded) to New York A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the services of another Additional Pay-Master can be made useful, let this appointment be made. A. LINCOLN May 21. 1864

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine & report on this case May 23. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Roberts
United States Military Telegraph, To the Commanding Officer War Department. at Fort Monroe May 23. 1864
Is a man named Henry Sack to be executed tomorrow at noon? If so, when was he condemned and for what offense? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 23, 1864
Understanding that Mr. John J. Chew, of Fredericksburg Va---is now in arrest as a hostage for our wounded soldiers, carried by citizens from Fredericksburg into the rebel hands at Richmond, and understanding that Mr. Chew, so far from doing anything to make him responsible for that act, or which would induce the rebels to give one of our men for him, he actually ministered, to the extent of his ability, to the relief of our wounded in Fredericksburg, it is directed that said John J. Chew be discharged and allowed to return to his home.

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 23, 1864
I am informed that Charles Case was nominated and confirmed as an Additional Pay-Master, but taking the Colonelcy of a Regiment, he never qualified.

To Timothy P. Andrews
May 24, 1864
I also know Major Holbrook to be a man of high character; and I therefore direct that he be allowed the thirty days to get the money. A. LINCOLN May 24, 1864

To John Brough
Gov. Brough War Department Washington City, Columbus, O. May 24 1864
Yours to Sec. of War asking for something cheering. We have nothing bad from any where. I have just seen a despatch of Grant, of 11 P.M. May 23, on the North Anna, and partly accross it, which ends as follows: ``Every thing looks exceedingly favorable for us.''  We have nothing later from him. A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
To the House of Representatives. May 24, 1864
In answer to the Resolution of the House of Representatives of yesterday on the subject of the Joint Resolution of the 4th. of last month relative to Mexico, I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State to whom the Resolution was referred. Washington. 24th. May, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Joseph Roberts
Executive Mansion To the Commanding Officer at Washington D.C. Fort Monroe. Va May 24. 1864
Let the execution of Henry Sack be suspended. I have commuted his sentence to imprisonment during the war. A. LINCOLN Major Eckert Please send this at once Yrs JOHN HAY Major & AAG

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: May 24, 1864
I recommend Lieutenant-Commander Francis A. Roe for advancement in his grade five numbers, to take rank next after Lieutenant-Commander John H. Upshur, for distinguished conduct in battle in command of the U.S. steamer Sassacus in her attack on and attempt to run down the Rebel iron-clad ram Albermarle on the 5th of May, 1864. I also recommend that First Assistant Engineer James M. Hobby  be advanced thirty numbers in his grade for distinguished conduct in battle and extraordinary heroism, as mentioned in the report of Lieutenant-Commander Francis A. Roe, commanding the U.S. steamer Sassacus in her action with the Rebel ram Albermarle on the 5th May, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, D.C., May 24, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

E.A. Paul. The Times I believe is always true to the Union, and therefore should be treated at least as well as any. A. LINCOLN May 24. 1864

To Isaac N. Arnold
Hon. I. N. Arnold. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, May 25, 1864.
In regard to the order of General Burnside suspending the Chicago Times now nearly a year ago, I can only say I was embarrassed with the question between what was due to the Military service on the one hand, and the Liberty of the Press on the other, and I believe it was the despatch of Senator Trumbull and yourself, added to the proceedings of the meeting which it brought me, that turned the scale in favor of my revoking the order. I am far from certain to-day that the revocation was not right; and I am very sure the small part you took in it, is just ground to disparage your judgment, much less to impugn your motives. I take it that your devotion to the Union and the Administration can not be questioned by any sincere man. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George G. Meade
Major-General Meade, Executive Mansion, Army of Potomac: Washington, May 25, 1864.
Mr. J. C. Swift wishes a pass from me to follow your army to pick up rags and cast-off clothing. I will give it to him if you say so, otherwise not. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 25, 1864
If it is true that Major Miller made payments under express orders of the Secretary of War; as a matter of equity, he, Major Miller, should not be made to lose the money; but the accounting office having settled the matter, I doubt both the legality and propriety of interference by the President.

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, May 26. 1864.
Please allow the Secretary of War to withdraw the record in the case of William Yokum, he to furnish you a transcript of it if you deem it necessary. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, May 26, 1864.
Let Stephen C. Campbell, now held as a prisoner of War at Johnson's Island,  be discharged on taking the oath. This is a special case, and not a precedent, the man having voluntarily quitted the rebel service, and also being subject to fits. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I had these letters some days ago, but so far have not attended to them. Will the Sec. of War please look into them? A. LINCOLN May 26. 1864.

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, Whom it may concern. Washington, May 26. 1864.
I am again pressed with the claim of Mr. Marshall O. Roberts, for transportation of what was called the Naval Brigade from NewYork to Fortress Monroe. This force was a special organization got up by one Bartlett, in pretended pursuance of written authority from me, but in fact, pursuing the authority in scarcely any thing whatever. The credit given him by Mr. Roberts, was given in the teeth of the express declaration that the government would not be responsible for the class of expences to which it belonged. After all some part of the transportation became useful to the government, and equitably should be paid for; but I have neither time or means to ascertain this equitable amount, or any appropriation to pay it with if ascertained. If the Quarter-Master at New-York can ascertain what would compensate for so much of the transport[at]ion as did result usefully to the government, it might be a step towards reaching justice. I write this from memory; but I believe it is substantially correct. A. LINCOLN.

To Isaac N. Arnold
Executive Mansion, Hon. Isaac N. Arnold: Washington, May 27, 1864.
My Dear Sir: I hear you are assailed for your action in regard to General Burnside's order suppressing the Chicago Times . All you did was to send me two dispatches. In the first you jointly with Senator Trumbull, very properly asked my serious and prompt consideration, for a petition of some of your constituents, praying for a revocation of the order. In the second you said you did not in the first dispatch intend to express an opinion that the order should be abrogated. This  is absolutely all that ever came to me from you on the subject. I am far from certain to-day that the resolution [revocation]  was not right, and I am very sure the small part you took in it is no proper ground to disparage your judgment, much less to impugn your motives. Your devotion to the Union and the Administration cannot be questioned by an sincere man. Yours truly, ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Richard W. Thompson
Hon. R. W. Thompson Executive Mansion, Terre Haute, Ia. Washington, May 27, 1864.
Your letter in relation to Gen. Hunter and your son, just received. If Gen. Hu[nter] should ask to have your son on his staff, the requ[est] would be granted; but the General is now actively moving in the field, and is beyond telegraph. I doubt whether the promotion you think of is legally possible A LINCOLN

Reply to Delegation of Baptists
May 28, 1864
In the present very responsible position in which I am engaged, I have had great cause of gratitude for the support so unanimously given by all Christian denominations of the country. I have had occasion so frequently to respond to something like this assemblage, that I have said all that I had to say. This particular body is in all respects as respectable as any that have been presented to me. The resolutions I have merely heard read, and I therefore beg to be allowed an opportunity to make a short response in writing.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. May 28, 1864
In reply to a Resolution of the Senate of the 25th. instant, relating to Mexican Affairs I transmit a partial report from the Secretary of State of this date; with the papers therein mentioned. Washington, 28 May 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Cornelius A. Walborn
Hon. C. A. Walborn. Executive Mansion Philadelphia, Pa. Washington D.C. May 28. 1864
Yours received. I have felt constrained to answer repeated invitations to attend the great Fair at your city, that I can not be present at it's opening, and that whether I can during it's continuance must depend on circumstances. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

This introduces Hon. Mr. Ingersoll, successor to our lamented friend Lovejoy. Please see him. A. LINCOLN [May] 28, 1864

To John H. Bryant
Hon. John H Bryant Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, May 30, 1864.
Yours of the 14th. Inst. inclosing a card of invitation to a preliminary meeting contemplating the erection of a Monument to the memory of Hon. Owen Lovejoy, was duly received. As you anticipate, it will be out of my power to attend. Many of you have known Mr. Lovejoy longer than I have, and are better able than I to do his memory complete justice. My personal acquaintance with him commenced only about ten years ago, since when it has been quite intimate; and every step in it has been one of increasing respect and esteem, ending, with his life, in no less than affection on my part. It can be truly said of him that while he was personally ambitious, he bravely endured the obscurity which the unpopularity of his principles imposed, and never accepted official honors, until those honors were ready to admit his principles with him. Throughout my heavy, and perplexing responsibilities here, to the day of his death, it would scarcely wrong any other to say, he was my most generous friend. Let him have the marble monument, along with the well-assured and more enduring one in the hearts of those who love liberty, unselfishly, for all men. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Arthur H. Dutton
[Dutton] Executive Mansion [Old Point Comfort Va.]  Washington, May 30. 1864
Col. Dutton is permitted to come from Fort-Monroe to Washington. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning A. Barton Holcomb

I wish to consider this case. A LINCOLN May 30. 1864.

To Thomas H. Hicks

This little gentleman has seen me, and now carries my respects back to his good father, Gov Hicks. A. LINCOLN May 30, 1864.

To George B. Ide, James R. Doolittle, and A. Hubbell
Rev. Dr. Ide} Executive Mansion, Hon. J. R. Doolittle} Committee Washington, & Hon. A. Hubbell} May 30, 1864.
In response to the preamble and resolutions of the American Baptist Home Mission Society, which you did me the honor to present, I can only thank you for thus adding to the effective and almost unanamous support which the Christian communities are so zealously giving to the country, and to liberty. Indeed it is difficult to conceive how it could be otherwise with any one professing christianity, or even having ordinary perceptions of right and wrong. To read in the Bible, as the word of God himself, that ``In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,[''] and to preach there-from that, ``In the sweat of other mans faces shalt thou eat bread,'' to my mind can scarcely be reconciled with honest sincerity. When brought to my final reckoning, may I have to answer for robbing no man of his goods; yet more tolerable even this, than for robbing one of himself, and all that was his. When, a year or two ago, those professedly holy men of the South, met in the semblance of prayer and devotion, and, in the name of Him who said ``As ye would all men should do unto you, do ye even so unto them'' appealed to the christian world to aid them in doing to a whole race of men, as they would have no man do unto themselves, to my thinking, they contemned and insulted God and His church, far more than did Satan when he tempted the Saviour with the Kingdoms of the earth. The devils attempt was no more false, and far less hypocritical. But let me forbear, remembering it is also written ``Judge not, lest ye be judged.''

To Edwin M. Stanton
May 30, 1864
On principle an officer who resigns should receive his pay until he receives notice that his resignation is accepted. Let this be done in this case, if the law will admit of it.

Endorsement Concerning a Purported Forgery
May 31, 1864
I got the impression that a forgery was charged, but I can not say, nor do I think I have said, that it was distinctly charged, or that the gentlemen intended me to understand it as being charged. May 31. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Field
Executive Mansion, Mrs. Field Washington, May 31, 1864.
Mr. Sedgwick informs me that you desire an autograph of mine, to finish a collection for the Sanitary Fair. It gives me great pleasure to comply with your request. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James B. Fry

Will the Provost Marshal please give the bearer, James Johnson and J. C. Lucas, both colored, a pass to visit Camp Casey? May 31, 1864 A. LINCOLN.

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
Major Gen. Hurlbut Executive Mansion Belvidere, Ills. Washington, May 31, 1864
You are hereby authorized to visit Washington and Baltimore A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. May 31, 1864
I transmit to the Senate, in answer to their Resolution of the 28th instant, a report from the Secretary of State, with accompanying documents. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, May 31st. 1864.

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, May 31. 1864.
The attached is an application for the Consul-Generalship at Montreal. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

List of Applicants for Montana Appointments
[c. June, 1864]
GOVERNOR OF MONTANA. William Cumback. 	Ia 	M. N. Wisewell. 	N.J. R. T. Van Horn. 	Mo. 	Charles H. Morgan. 	Nevada. Joseph C. McKilbin. 	Cal. 	Sidney Edgerton. 	Idaho. James M. Clarke. 	R.I. 	Jesse H. Leavenworth. Daniel E. Somes. 	Me. 	James L. Campbell. 	Idaho. Alexander Cummings. 	Penn. SECRETARY OF MONTANA. C. De Witt Smith. 	N Y. 	Elisha M. Wright. 	Ia. Silas W. Burr. 	O. 	William F. Shaffer. 	Colorado. James M. Campbell. 	Idaho. 	Henry W. De Puy. Thomas J. Pickett. 	Ills. 	Samuel T. Hauser. 	Mont. Ebenezer Moore. 	Ills. 	Henry P. Torsey. 	Maine Clement W. Rice. 	Nevada. 	Ammi Giddings. 	Conn. (Misplaced) Judgeships in Montana . Thomas J. Logan. 	Kan. 	William Hemingway. 	Mich. A. Bartlett. 	Ills. 	Henry O'Connor. 	Iowa. Theodore J. Burnett. 	N.Y. 	Lorenzo K. Haddock. 	N.Y. Dennis S. Sweany. 	Md. 	Thomas S. Briscoe. 	Md. Silas Woodson. 	Mo. 	Moses B. Hopkins. 	Mich. George J. Parsons. 	Mich 	L. P. Williston. 	Dakota Henry L. Jennings. 	Minn. 	Hez. L. Hosmer. 	N.Y. Ashley. H. Miles Moore. 	Kan. 	Stephen P. Twiss. 	Mass. Eviend Brierer. 	Pa 	Leonard G. Hall. 	Mich Dolphus S. Paine 	 	N. W. Davis. 	N.Y. William C. Rheim 	 	Charles McClure. 	Minn. J. Warren Bell. 	Mo. 	Charles M. Runk. 	Penn. J. K. Hoed. 	 	Ammi Giddings. 	Conn. DISTRICT ATTORNEY, for Montana Edward B. Nealley, 	Iowa. George C. Bates. 	Ills. Robert Martin. 	Ohio. E. C. Gobin. 	Pa. Charles P. Leslie. 	N.Y. Marshall for Montana C. F. Buck. 	Minn. P. W. Norris. 	Ohio. Surveyor General Nathaniel P. Langford. 	Montana. Boyd. 	Mo. Nathan Shipley, Jr. Md.} Something John Coons. Va} in Territories.

Memorandum of Appointments
[c. June, 1864]
Consul at Montreal--- 	John F. Potter. 	Wis. {Joseph Holt Judge Advocate General. 	{William McKee Dunn. 	Ia. Montana---Governor. 	Sidney Edgerton. 	Idaho. `` Secretary. 	Henry P. Torsey. 	Me. `` C. J. 	Hezikiah L. Hosmer. 	N.Y. `` As. J. 	Ammi Giddings. 	Conn. `` As. J. 	Lorenzo P. Williston. 	Dakota. Vacancancy [ sic ] in Idaho. 	Silas Woodson. 	Mo. Do `` Dakota. 	A[sa]. Bartlett. 	Ills. Attorney. 	Edward B. Neally. 	Iowa. Marshal. 	C[ornelius]. F. Buck. 	Minn. Surveyor G. 	Marcus Boyd. 	Mo.

To Edwin M. Stanton
[June, 1864?]
Dear Sir: The bearer of this, William J. [B?] Post, a member of the 140th Pennsylvania Regiment, wants to go to his home in Washington, Pa. As you can see, he is nothing but a boy, has been sick in the hospital, but I believe he is made of the right kind of stuff. Please see to his release and that he gets transportation home. A. LINCOLN.

To Jose M. Medina
June 1, 1864
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, To His Excellency Senor General Don Jose Maria Medina President of the Republic of Honduras Great and Good Friend: I have had the honor to receive your Excellency's letter of the 20 February, last, announcing your elevation by constitutional forms to the Presidency of the Republic of Honduras, and expressing your determination to maintain and extend the friendly relations which happily exist between our two countries. Accept, your Excellency, my congratulations upon this event, and be assured that on my part your friendly disposition and efforts will be warmly and cordially reciprocated. I sincerely pray the Almighty to give you a peaceful and successful administration and to grant to the people of Honduras prosperity, and happiness; and so commending you to His safe and Holy keeping, I am your good friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. Washington, June 1, 1864.

Order for Parole of Charles H. Jonas
June 2, 1864
Allow Charles H. Jonas, now a prisoner of war at Johnson's Island, a parole of three weeks to visit his dying father, Abra[ha]m Jonas, at Quincy, Ill. A. LINCOLN. June 2, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the Sec. of War, can find the legal authority and means to give the protection sought by the within, let it be done. June 2. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Frederick A. Conkling and Others
Hon. F. A. Conkling Executive Mansion, and others. Washington, June 3, 1864.
Gentlemen: Your letter inviting me to be present at a mass meeting of loyal citizens to be held at New York on the 4th inst., for the purpose of expressing gratitude to Lieutenant General Grant for his signal services, was received yesterday. It is impossible for me to attend. I approve, nevertheless, whatever may tend to strengthen and sustain Gen. Grant and the noble armies now under his direction. My previous high estimate of Gen. Grant has been maintained and heightened by what has occurred in the remarkable campaign he is now conducting; while the magnitude and difficulty of the task before him does  not prove less than I expected. He and his brave soldiers are now in the midst of their great trial, and I trust that at your meeting you will so shape your good words that they may turn to men and guns moving to his and their support. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major General Dix Executive Mansion, New-York. Washington, June 4. 1864.
Please inform me whether Charles H. Scott, of 8th. U.S. Infantry is under sentence of death in your Department, & if so, when to be executed & what are the features of the case. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Appointing Green C. Goodloe

Let this re-appointment be made. A. LINCOLN June 4. 1864

To William H. Seward

Please file---written I suppose by Gen. Cameron, though not signed. June 4. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, June 4, 1864.
When we shall next meet please try to remember to call up for conference the Hurtt case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase

I will try to call at your office at 3 P.M., to-day, June 6, 1864. Hon. Sec. of Treasury A. LINCOLN.

EndorsementConcerning Discharge of Volunteers

The Secretary of War says this attempt, if successful, would reach forty thousand of the Army. A. LINCOLN June 6. 1864.

EndorsementConcerning Leonard Swett and Joseph Holt
[June 6, 1864]
Swett is unquestionably all right. Mr. Holt is a good man, but I had not heard or thought of him for V.P. Wish not to interfere about V.P. Can not interfere about platform. Convention must judge for itself.

To George G. Meade
Major General Meade Executive Mansion, Army of the Potomac. Washington, June 6, 1864.
Private James McCarthy of the 140th. N.Y. Vols. is here under sentence to the Dry Tortugas for an attempt to desert. His friends appeal to me, and if his Colonel and you consent, I will send him to his regiment. Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Slocum
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Slocum June 6. 1864.
My friend, Thomas A. Marshall, who will hand you this, informs me that he has some difficulty in managing a plantation in your Department. It may be that you withhold nothing from him which can safely be granted; and I do not make any order in the case; but simply wish to say I personally know, so far as such things can be known, that Mr. Marshall is loyal, truthful, and honorable; and that I shall be glad for him to be obliged in any not unreasonable way. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Secretary of War. [c. June 6, 1864?]
Sir: Without an if or an and, let Colonel Elliott W. Rice be made a Brigadier-General in the United States Army. A. LINCOLN.

To William S. Rosecrans
United States Military Telegraph, Major General Rosecrans War Department. St. Louis, Mo. Washington, June 7. 1864
When your communication shall be ready send it by Express. There will be no danger of it's miscarriage. A. LINCOLN.

To William S. Rosecrans
Cypher United States Military Telegraph, Major Gen. Rosecrans War Department. St. Louis, Mo. Washington June 8. 1864
Yours of to-day received. I am unable to conceive how a message can be less safe by the Express than by a Staff-officer. If you send a verbal message, the messenger is one additional person let into the secret. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
To the Senate, and June 8, 1864
House of Representatives I have the honor to submit, for the consideration of Congress, a letter and inclosure from the Secretary of War, with my concurrence in the recommendation therein made. June 8. 1864 ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington D.C.

Reply to Committee Notifying Lincoln of His Renomination
June 9, 1864
[Mr. Chairman and]  Gentlemen of the Committee: I will neither conceal my gratification, nor restrain the expression of my gratitude, that the Union people, through their convention, in their  continued effort to save, and advance the nation, have deemed me not unworthy to remain in my present position. I know no reason to doubt that I shall accept the nomination tendered; and yet perhaps I should not declare definitely before reading and considering what is called the Platform. I will say now, however, [that]  I approve the declaration in favor of so amending the Constitution as to prohibit slavery throughout the nation. When the people in revolt, with a  hundred days of  explicit notice, that they could, within those days, resume their allegiance, without the overthrow of their institution, and that they could not so resume it afterwards, elected to stand out, such [an]  amendment of the Constitution as [is]  now proposed, became a fitting, and necessary conclusion to the final success of the Union cause. Such alone can meet and cover all cavils. Now,  the unconditional Union men, North and South, perceive its  importance, and embrace it. In the joint names of Liberty and Union, let us labor to give it legal form, and practical effect.

Reply to Elisha H. Allen
June 9, 1864
SIR---In every light in which the state of the Hawaiian Islands can be contemplated, it is an object of profound interest to the United States. Virtually it was once a colony. It is now a near and intimate neighbor. It is a haven of shelter and refreshment for our merchant fishermen, seamen, and other citizens, when on their lawful occasions they are navigating the eastern seas and oceans. Its people are free, and its laws, language and religion are largely the fruits of our own teaching and example. The distinguished part which you, Mr. Minister, have acted in the history of that interesting country is well known here. It gives me pleasure to assure you of my sincere desire to do what I can to render now your sojourn in the United States agreeable to yourself, satisfactory to your sovereign, and beneficial to the Hawaiian people.

Reply to Delegation from the National Union League
June 9, 1864
Gentlemen: I can only say, in response to the kind remarks of your chairman, as I suppose, that I am very grateful for the renewed confidence which has been accorded to me, both by the convention and by the National League. I am not insensible at all to the personal compliment there is in this; yet I do not allow myself to believe that any but a small portion of it is to be appropriated as a personal compliment. The convention and the nation, I am assured, are alike animated by a higher view of the interests of the country for the present and the great future, and that part I am entitled to appropriate as a compliment is only that part which I may lay hold of as being the opinion of the convention and of the League, that I am not entirely  unworthy to be intrusted with the place I have occupied for the last three years. I have not permitted myself, gentlemen, to conclude that I am the best man in the country; but I am reminded, in this connection, of a story of an old Dutch farmer, who remarked to a companion once that ``it was not best to swap horses when crossing streams.''

Response to a Serenade by the Ohio Delegation
June 9, 1864
GENTLEMEN: I am very much obliged to you for this compliment. I have just been saying, and will repeat it, that the hardest of all speeches I have to answer is a serenade. I never know what to say on these occasions. I suppose that you have done me this kindness in connection with the action of the Baltimore convention, which has recently taken place, and with which, of course, I am very well satisfied. (Laughter and applause.) What we want, still more than Baltimore conventions or presidential elections, is success under Gen. Grant. (Cries of ``Good,'' and applause.) I propose that you constantly bear in mind that the support you owe to the brave officers and soldiers in the field is of the very first importance, and we should therefore bend all our energies to that point. Now, without detaining you any longer, I propose that you help me to close up what I am now saying with three rousing cheers for Gen. Grant and the officers and soldiers under his command.

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Sec. of Treasury Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 10, 1864.
Herewith are the documents which you kindly proposed fixing up for me, towit: 1. 	Treasurers receipt, of March 15. 1862. of 7/30's. 	$14,200. 2 	do do April 16. do `` `` 	``2,000.00 3 	Certificate of Deposite, Aug 1. 1863. 	``22,306.67 4. 	do do `` 18. do 	``3,874.73 5. 	5---20's 	``8 000.00. 6. 	Two Warrants $2022/33. $2022/34 	``4 044.67 7. 	Greenbacks. 	89.00. 54,515.07 Left with Gov. Chase to fix up on this 11. June 1864

To Joseph Henry
Professor Henry. June 10, 1864
A few days ago a friend of yours called and urged me to pardon Private McCarthy, & upon my refusal, went away dissatisfied, and I thought a little out of temper. After he was gone, I telegraphed Gen. Meade that if he and McCarthy's Colonel would consent, I would send him back to his Regiment; and the within is Gen. Meade's answer. Yours truly A. LINCOLN June 10. 1864

To James G. McAdam
June 10, 1864
McCrea was banished from Beaufort by the Military authorities, & I am now called on to send him back, without the consent of those authorities, which I can not consent to do. They & not I must judge whether his presence is injurious. If the Gen. in command there--- Gen. Saxton I believe---consents, then I am quite willing for Mr. McCrea to return---not without. A. LINCOLN June 10, 1864.

Order to John Hay
Executive Mansion, Washington, June 10, 1864.
Major John Hay, Assistant Adjutant General, will repair at once to St. Louis Missouri, and having executed my verbal instructions will return to his station here. A. LINCOLN

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major-General Rosecrans June 10, 1864.
Major John Hay, the bearer, is one of my Private Secretaries, to whom please communicate, in writing, or verbally, anything you would think proper to say to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Julian M. Sturtevant
Rev. J. M. Sturtevant Executive Mansion, & others, committee Washington, June 10. 1864.
Gentlemen I only have time to acknowledge the receipt of, and to sincerely thank you for, the resolutions of the Triennial Congregational convention, and your kind note communicating them. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement
[c. June 11, 1864]
I believe I already have copies of all Telegrams I sent upon this subject. Will the S

Remarks to One Hundred Thirtieth Ohio Regiment
June 11, 1864
Soldiers, I understand you have just come from Ohio---come to help us in this the nation's day of trials, and also of its hopes. I thank you for your promptness in responding to the call for troops. Your services were never needed more than now. I know not where you are going. You may stay here and take the places of others who will be sent to the front; or you may go there yourselves. Wherever you go I know you will do your best. Again I thank you. Good-by.

To John Rogers
Mr. John Rogers Executive Mansion, New-York. Washington, June 13, 1864.
I can not pretend to be a judge in such matters; but the Statuette groups ``Wounded Scout''---``Friend in the Swamp'' which you did me the honor to present, is very pretty and suggestive, and, I should think, excellent as a piece of art. Thank you for it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: June 13, 1864
I transmit herewith for consideration with a view to ratification a convention between the United States of America and the United Colombian States, signed by the plenipotentiaries of the contracting powers on the 10 February last, providing for a revival of the joint commission on claims under the convention of 10 September, 1857, with New Granada. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, 13th June, 1864.

To the Senate
To the Senate June 13, 1864
of the United States: In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the 4th. March, 1864, I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of War in the case of William Yokum, with accompanying papers. Washington, ABRAHAM LINCOLN June 13th, 1864. [Endorsement on record of trial of William Yokum] After making the above entry for pardon, upon representations made by the Secretary of War, I suspended action on the case. June 13, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

To Lorenzo Thomas
Major General Thomas Executive Mansion, Louisville, Ky. Washington, June 13, 1864.
Complaint is made to me that in the vicinity of Henderson, our military are seizing negroes and carrying them off without their own consent, and according to no rules whatever, except those of absolute violence. I wish you would look into this & inform me, and see that the making soldiers of negroes is done according to the rules you are acting upon, so that unnecessary provocation and irratation be avoided. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas Webster
Thomas Webster Washington, D.C. Philadelphia June 13. 1864
Will try to leave here Wednesday afternoon, say at 4 P.M. remain till Thursday afternoon, and then return. This subject to events. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Hon. Sec. of Navy, please see and hear Mrs. Dessinger [Derringer?] A. LINCOLN June 13, 1864

To Edward Bates

Upon the representation of Senator Harris, let a pardon be made out for the unexecuted part of the sentence in this case June 14. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Office U. S. Military Telegraph, Gen. Burbridge War Department, Lexington, Ky. Washington, D.C., June 14 1864.
Have just read your despatch of action at Cynthiana. Please accept my congratulation and thanks for yourself and command. A. LINCOLN

To Samuel P. Heintzelman
Major General Heintzelman War Department Columbus, Ohio. Washington, June 14, 1864.
Hobson's conduct, in surrendering, and taking a hot-haste parole, has an exceedingly suspicious appearance. Please ascertain if he should not be arrested and tried. EDWIN M STANTON Sec of War

To Robert Todd Lincoln
Executive Mansion, My dear Son Washington, June 14, 1864.
Of course I will try to give the sittings for the ``Crayon.'' Your Father A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, June 14, 1864.
If you concur, please sign and send the inclosed draft of despatch. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Washington, June 15, 1864.
My Dear Sir: The Governor of Iowa and some of the M.C.'s have a little embarrassment about the removal of a Mr. Atkinson, in your department, and the appointment to the place of a Mr. Sill,  I think. They claim a promise, which I know I never made, except upon the condition that you desired the removal of Atkinson. Please help me a little. If you will write me a note that you do not wish Atkinson removed, that will end the matter. On the contrary, if you do wish him removed, or even are indifferent about it, say so to me, accompanying your note with a nomination for Sill. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Ulysses S. Grant
United States Military Telegraph, Lieut. Gen. Grant War Department. Head Qrs. A.P. Washington, June 15, 1864
Have just read your despatch of 1 P.M. yesterday. I begin to see it. You will succeed. God bless you all. A. LINCOLN

Order for Arrest of John S. Carlisle
Executive Mansion Washington City June 15. 1864
Whereas it has come to my knowledge that John S Carlisle of West Virginia is engaged in treasonable and disloyal correspondence with one Louis A Welton  an enemy of the United States and an agent of the rebels now in arms and at war with the United States, and has invited and urged the said agent of the rebels to come to the city of Washington to confer with him the said Carlisle; It is ordered that Colonel Wisewell  Military Governor of the District of Washington arrest and take in custody the said John S Carlisle and hold him in custody until further order. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
June 15, 1864
On the representation and petition of Allbright and Dimmick, who prossecuted in this case, and Hon. W. D. Kelly's indorsement of them as every way reliable, John Paul named within, is pardoned for the unexecuted part of his sentence. A. LINCOLN June 15, 1864.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. June 16, 1864
I transmit herewith a further report from the Secretary of State in answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 25th. Ultimo relative to Mexican Affairs with the papers therein referred to Washington June 16. 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Speech at Great Central Sanitary Fair, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
June 16, 1864
I suppose that this toast was intended to open the way for me to say something. [Laughter.] War, at the best, is terrible, and this war of ours, in its magnitude and in its duration, is one of the most terrible. It has deranged business, totally in many localities, and partially in all localities. It has destroyed property, and ruined homes; it has produced a national debt and taxation unprecedented, at least in this country. It has carried mourning to almost every home, until it can almost be said that the ``heavens are hung in black.'' Yet it continues, and several relieving coincidents [ coincidences ] have accompanied it from the very beginning, which have not been known, as I understood [ understand ], or have any knowledge of, in any former wars in the history of the world. The Sanitary Commission, with all its benevolent labors, the Christian commission, with all its Christian and benevolent labors, and the various places, arrangements, so to speak, and institutions, have contributed to the comfort and relief of the soldiers. You have two of these places in this city---the Cooper-Shop and Union Volunteer Refreshment Saloons. [Great applause and cheers.] And lastly, these fairs, which, I believe, began only in last August, if I mistake not, in Chicago; then at Boston, at Cincinnati, Brooklyn, New York, at Baltimore, and those at present held at St. Louis, Pittsburg, and Philadelphia. The motive and object that lie at the bottom of all these are most worthy; for, say what you will, after all the most is due to the soldier, who takes his life in his hands and goes to fight the battles of his country. [Cheers.] In what is contributed to his comfort when he passes to and fro [ from city to city ], and in what is contributed to him when he is sick and wounded, in whatever shape it comes, whether from the fair and tender hand of woman, or from any other source, is much, very much; but, I think there is still that which has as much value to him [ in the continual reminders he sees in the newspapers, that while he is absent he is yet remembered by the loved ones at home ---he is not forgotten. [Cheers.] Another view of these various institutions is worthy of consideration, I think; they are voluntary contributions, given freely, zealously, and earnestly, on top of all the disturbances of business, [ of all the disorders ,] the taxation and burdens that the war has imposed upon us, giving proof that the national resources are not at all exhausted, [cheers;] that the national spirit of patriotism is even [ firmer and ] stronger than at the commencement of the rebellion [ war ]. It is a pertinent question often asked in the mind privately, and from one to the other, when is the war to end? Surely I feel as deep [ great ] an interest in this question as any other can, but I do not wish to name a day, or month, or a year when it is to end. I do not wish to run any risk of seeing the time come, without our being ready for the end, and for fear of disappointment, because the time had come and not the end. [ We accepted this war; we did not begin it .] We accepted this war for an object, a worthy object, and the war will end when that object is attained. Under God, I hope it never will until that time. [Great cheering.] Speaking of the present campaign, General Grant is reported to have said, I am going through on this line if it takes all summer. [Cheers.] This war has taken three years; it was begun or accepted upon the line of restoring the national authority over the whole national domain, and for the American people, as far as my knowledge enables me to speak, I say we are going through on this line if it takes three years more. [Cheers.] My friends, I did not know but that I might be called upon to say a few words before I got away from here, but I did not know it was coming just here. [Laughter.] I have never been in the habit of making predictions in regard to the war, but I am almost tempted to make one. [(Do it---do it! )]---If I were to hazard it, it is this: That Grant is this evening, with General Meade and General Hancock, of Pennsylvania, and the brave officers and soldiers with him, in a position from whence he will never be dislodged until Richmond is taken [loud cheering], and I have but one single proposition to put now, and, perhaps, I can best put it in form of an interrogative [ interragatory ]. If I shall discover that General Grant and the noble officers and men under him can be greatly facilitated in their work by a sudden pouring forward [ forth ] of men and assistance, will you give them to me? [Cries of ``yes.''] Then, I say, stand ready, for I am watching for the chance. [Laughter and cheers.] I thank you, gentlemen.

Speech Accepting Medal Presented by Ladies of the Fair
June 16, 1864
I have only to say that I accept this present of the ladies as an additional token of your confidence, but I do not need any further evidence of the loyalty and devotion of the women of America to the cause of the Union and the cause of Christian humility. I accept it thankfully, as another manifestation of the esteem of the ladies.

Speech at Union League Club, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
June 16, 1864
I thank you, sir, for your kind words of welcome. I am happy at the opportunity of visiting the Union League of Philadelphia, the first, I believe, of the Union Leagues---an organization free from political prejudices, and prompted in its formation by motives of the highest patriotism. I have many a time heard of its doing great good, and no one has charged it with doing any wrong. But it is not my intention to make a speech. My object in visiting Philadelphia was exclusively to witness the Sanitary Fair, and I need scarcely say that I have been more than delighted in witnessing the extraordinary efforts of your patriotic men and lovely ladies in behalf of the suffering soldiers and sailors of our country. It will now afford me pleasure to take each of you by the hand.

Speech to Crowd before Union League Club, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
June 16, 1864
FELLOW CITIZENS: I am very grateful to-night for this reception, which you have tendered me. I will not make a speech. I came among you thinking that my presence might do some good towards swelling the contributions of the great Fair in aid of the Sanitary Commission, who intend it for the soldiers in the field. While at the Fair I said a few words which I thought proper to say in connection with it. At the solicitation of the Union League I speak to you, and, in conclusion, I thank you for this great demonstration which you have paid me, and beg you will excuse me. [Great applause.]

Speech at Hotel Continental, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
June 16, 1864
FELLOW CITIZENS: I attended the Fair at Philadelphia to-day in the hope that possibly it might aid something in swelling the contributions for the benefit of the soldiers in the field, who are bearing the harder part of this great national struggle in which we are engaged. [Applause.] I thought I might do this without impropriety. It did not even occur to me that a kind demonstration like this would be made to me. [A voice---``You are worthy of it,'' and cheers.] I do not really think it is proper in my position for me to make a political speech; and having said at the Fair what I thought was proper for me to say there in reference to that subject, and being more of a politician than anything else, and having exhausted that branch of the subject at the fair, and not being prepared to speak on the other, I am without anything to say. I have really appeared before you now more for the purpose of seeing you [a voice: ``Three cheers for Honest Old Abe!''] and allowing you to see me a little while, [laughter] and, to show to you that I am not wanting in due consideration and respect for you, when you make this kind demonstration in my honor. At the same time I must beg of you to excuse me from saying anything further.

To Lyman Trumbull
Hon. Lyman Trumbull Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, June 17, 1864.
Yours relative to reorganization of a State Government for Arkansas is received. I believe none of the Departments have had any thing to do with it. All that has been done within the range you mention, is embraced in an informal letter and telegraphic correspondence between parties there and myself, copies of which I have already furnished to Mr. Dawes  of the H.R. for the object corresponding to yours. It will save labor, and oblige me, if you will procure him to show you them. I believe you will find mentioned, a proclamation of Gen. Steele, no copy of which is with with [ sic ] the correspondence. The reason is I could not find it. If, after reading this, it still would be more satisfactory to you to have copies for yourself, let me know, and I will have them made out as soon as I reasonably can. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Journal
June 18, 1864
The Journal paper was always my friend; and, of course its editors the same. If there is any special reason why it should not have a share of the advertising I do not know it. A. LINCOLN June 18, 1864.

Endorsement Concerning Siege of Petersburg, Virginia

Petersburgh had not been taken at 8 A.M. yesterday. A.L. June 18, 1864.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. June 18, 1864
In further answer to the Senate's Resolution of the 28th ultimo, requesting to be informed whether the President ``has, and when, authorized a person alleged to have committed a crime against Spain, or any of its dependencies, to be delivered up to officers of that Government; and whether such delivery was had, and if so, under what authority of law or of treaty it was done''---I transmit a copy of a despatch of the 10th instant to the Secretary of State from the Acting Consul of the United States at Havana. Washington, 18th June, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, June 18. 1864.
Hon. L. Anderson and Judge Williams of Ky. are here urging, first, that assessments, for some time suspended in West Ky, be again put in operation; and secondly, that Gen. E. A. Paine be assigned to command them. Do both these things for them unless you know some reason to the contrary. I personally know Gen. Paine to be a good true man, having a West-Point education; but I do not know much as to his Military ability. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Cornelius A. Walborn
C. A. Walborn Washington, Post-Master Philadelphia June 18. 1864
Please come and see me in the next day or two. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Sec. of Navy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, June 18. 1864.
It seems that my old friend C. B. Denio, is in some trouble, pecuniarily, in consequence of not being allowed expences, and perhaps pay, on coming here. I feel confident he has not meant wrong, and I shall be glad for you to do the best for him you can, consistently with law & the good of the service. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln. Executive Mansion, Washington, Fifth Avenue Hotel N.Y. June 19, 1864.
Tad arrived safely, and all well. A. LINCOLN

To John Brough and Samuel P. Heintzelman
Gov. Brough & Executive Mansion, Gen. Heintzelman. Washington, June 20, 1864.
Both of you have official responsibility as to the U.S. Military in Ohio, and generally---one, in organizing and furnishing, the other in directing, commanding, and forwarding. Consult together freely, watch Vallandigham and others closely, and, upon discovering any palpable injury, or iminent danger to the Military, proceeding from him, them, or any of them, arrest all implicated. Otherwise do not arrest without further order; meanwhile report the signs to me from time to time. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum of Interview with Cornelius A. Walborn
June 20, 1864
What I said to Post-Master of Philadelphia on this day---June 20. 1864. Complaint is made to me that you are using your official power to defeat Judge Kelly's renomination to Congress. I am well satisfied with Judge Kelly as an M.C. and I do not know that the man who might supplant him would be as satisfactory; but the correct principle, I think, is that all our friends should have absolute freedom of choice among our friends. My wish therefore is that you will do just as you think fit with your own suffrage in the case, and not constrain any of your subordinates to do other than as he thinks fit with his. This is precisely the rule I inculcated, and adhered to on my part, when a certain other nomination, now recently made, was being canvassed for.

To Edwin D. Morgan
Private Hon. E. D. Morgan Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 20, 1864.
I can not longer delay the Montana appointments, and I find I can not appoint our friend Leslie without greater difficulty than we knew of when I saw you. I hope it may be cleared away for something yet to come. I will explain when I next see you. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward

If no reason is known to the contrary I shall be pleased to comply with the within request. A. LINCOLN June 20. 1864

To Morton S. Wilkinson
Private Hon. M. S. Wilkinson Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, June 20, 1864.
I can not longer delay the Montana appointments; and it is with great regret, on your account, that I have thought fit to send the name of Judge Edgerton  for Governor. I could not do otherwise without much greater difficulty to myself, and I beg you to be assured that it is a great pain to me to know that it is disagreeable to you. Do not, for a moment suppose that this note is intended to constrain you to support the nomination. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: June 21, 1864
I herewith communicate to the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, the articles of agreement and convention made and concluded at the city of Washington on the 15th instant, between the United States and the Delaware Indians of Kansas, referred to in the accompanying communication of the present date from the Secretary of the Interior. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, June 21, 1864.

Endorsement Concerning Appointment of Delos Lake
[c. June 22, 1864]
Mr. Campbell says that Judge Field, and Senator Conness are in favor of appointing Mr. Lake Attorney for California.

To Edward Bates
Hon Attorney General Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, June 24th. 1864.
By authority of the Constitution, and moved thereto by the fourth section of the act of Congress entitled ``An act making appropriations for the support of the Army for the year ending the thirtieth of June, Eighteen hundred and sixty five, and for other purposes,'' approved, June 15th. 1864, I require your opinion in writing as to what pay, bounty, and clothing are allowed by law to persons of color who were free on the 19th. day of April, 1861, and who have been enlisted and mustered into the military service of the United States between the month of December, 1862 and the 16th. of June 1864. Please answer as you would do, on my requirement, if the Act of June 15th. 1864 had not been passed; and I will so use your opinion as to satisfy that act. Your obt Servt A. LINCOLN.

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Executive Mansion, Boston, Mass. Washington, June 24, 1864.
All well, and very warm. Tad and I have been to Gen. Grant's army. Returned yesterday safe and sound. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. M. Davis Parks

Allow this lady, Mrs. Parks, with her friend, Mr. Tallmadge, to see her two sons, prisoners of war at Point Lookout. June 24, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major Gen. Rosecrans Washington, St. Louis, Mo June 24. 1864
Complaint is made to me that Gen. Brown does not do his best to suppress bushwhackers. Please ascertain and report to me. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: June 24, 1864
I herewith lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty made and concluded at the city of Washington on the 11th day of June, 1864, by and between Wm. P. Dole, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and Hiram W. Farnsworth, United States Indian agent, commissioners on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and head men of the Kansas tribe of Indians. A communication of the Secretary of the Interior of the 18th inst., with a copy of report of Commissioner of Indian Affairs of the 13th inst., accompany the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, Washington, June 24, 1864.

To William H. Seward

Hon. Sec. of State, please see and hear the bearer, Mr. Appleby. June 24. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Timothy P. Andrews
Executive Mansion Paymaster General Washington June 25. 1864
I am so frequently called on by persons in behalf of Paymasters, who have already served a long time in the South, for leave to come North, as to induce me to inquire whether there might not, without much inconvenience be a rule of exchanges which would be fair to all, and keep none so long in an uncongenial climate as to much endanger health. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States June 25, 1864
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the Resolution of the Senate dated the 7th of June, requesting me to return to the Senate the Resolution advising and consenting to the appointment of John H Goddard to be Justice of the Peace in and for the county of Washington and District of Columbia; and to state that on the 19th of May last the Resolution mentioned was sent to the Department of State, and a commission in accordance therewith was issued to Mr. Goddard on the same day, the appointment being thus perfected, and the Resolution becoming a part of the permanent records of the Department of State. [Executive Mansion,] [ABRAHAM LINCOLN.] [25 June, 1864.]

To Gustavus M. Bascom
Col. Bascom Washington DC. A. A. General June 27. 1864
Knoxville, Tenn. Please suspend sale of the property of Rogers & Co until further order. A. LINCOLN

To William C. Bryant
Hon. W. C. Bryant Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, June 27. 1864.
Yours of the 25th. has just been handed me by the Secretary of the Navy. The tone of the letter, rather than any direct statement in it, impresses me as a complaint that Mr. Henderson should have been removed from office, and arrested; coupled with the single suggestion that he be restored, if he shall establish his innocence. I know absolutely nothing of the case except as follows---Monday last Mr. Welles came to me with the letter of dismissal already written, saying he thought proper to show it to me before sending it. I asked him the charges, which he stated in a general way. With as much emphasis as I could I said `` Are you entirely certain of his guilt '' He answered that he was, to which I replied ``Then send the letter.'' Whether Mr. Henderson was a supporter of my second nomination I neither knew, or enquired, or even thought of. I shall be very glad indeed if he shall, as you anticipate, establish his innocence; or, to state it more strongly and properly, ``if the government shall fail to establish his guilt.'' I believe however, the man  who made the affidavit was of as spotless reputation as Mr. Henderson, until he was arrested on what his friends insist was outrageously insufficient evidence. I know the entire city government of Washington, with many other respectable citizens, appealed to me in his behalf, as a greatly injured gentleman. While the subject is up may I ask whether the Evening Post has not assailed me for supposed too lenient dealing with persons charged of fraud & crime? and that in cases of which the Post could know but little of the facts? I shall certainly deal as leniently with Mr. Henderson as I have felt it my duty to deal with others, notwithstanding any newspaper assaults. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To William Dennison and Others
Executive Mansion, Washington, June 27, 1864.
Hon. William Dennison & others, a Committee of the National Union Convention. Gentlemen: Your letter of the 14th. Inst. formally notifying me that I have been nominated by the convention you represent for the Presidency of the United States for four years from the fourth of March next has been received. The nomination is gratefully accepted, as the resolutions of the convention, called the platform, are heartily approved. While the resolution in regard to the supplanting of republican government upon the Western continent is fully concurred in, there might be misunderstanding were I not to say that the position of the government, in relation to the action of France in Mexico, as assumed through the State Department, and approved and indorsed by the convention, among the measures and acts of the Executive, will be faithfully maintained, so long as the state of facts shall leave that position pertinent and applicable. I am especially gratified that the soldier and the seaman were not forgotten by the convention, as they forever must and will be remembered by the grateful country for whose salvation they devote their lives. Thanking you for the kind and complimentary terms in which you have communicated the nomination and other proceedings of the convention, I subscribe myself Your Obt. Servt. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Secretary of Treasury. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington. June 28. 1864.
Yours inclosing a blank nomination for Maunsell B. Field to be Assistant Treasurer at New-York was received yesterday. I can not, without much embarrassment, make this appointment, principally because of Senator Morgan's very firm opposition to it. Senator Harris has not spoken to me on the subject, though I understand he is not averse to the appointment of Mr. Field; nor yet to any one of the three named by Senator Morgan, rather preferring, of them, however, Mr. Hillhouse. Gov. Morgan tells me he has mentioned the three names to you, towit, R. M. Blatchford, Dudley S. Gregory, and Thomas Hillhouse. It will really oblige me if you will make choice among these three, or any other man that Senators Morgan and Harris will be satisfied with, and send me a nomination for him. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Private Executive Mansion Hon. Secretary of the Treasury Washington DC. My dear Sir: June 28. 1864
When I received your note this forenoon suggesting a verbal conversation in relation to the appointment of a successor to Mr. Cisco, I hesitated because the difficulty does not, in the main part, lie within the range of a conversation between you and me. As the proverb goes, no man knows so well where the shoe pinches as he who wears it. I do not think Mr. Field a very proper man for the place, but I would trust your judgment, and forego this, were the greater difficulty out of the way. Much as I personally like Mr. Barney, it has been a great burden to me to retain him in his place, when nearly all our friends in New-York, were directly or indirectly, urging his removal. Then the apointment of Judge Hogeboom to be general Appraiser, brought me to and has ever since kept me at, the verge of open revolt. Now, the appointment of Mr. Field would precipitate me in it, unless Senator Morgan and those feeling as he does, could be brought to concur in it. Strained as I already am at this point I do not think I can make this appointment in the direction of still greater strain. The testimonials of Mr. Field, with your accompanying notes, were duly received, and I am now waiting to see your answer from Mr. Cisco. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ward H. Lamon
[c. June 28, 1864]
I regret this, but I can not veto a Bill of this character. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To, The Senate of the United States. June 28, 1864
In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the 16th. of last month, requesting information in regard to the maltreatment of passengers and seamen on board ships plying between New York and Aspinwall, I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State to whom the Resolution was referred. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, June 28. 1864.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. June 28, 1864
In answer to the Resolution of the Senate of the 24th. instant, requesting information in regard to the alleged enlistment in foreign countries of recruits for the military and naval service of the United States, I transmit Reports from the Secretaries of State, of War and of the Navy, respectively. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 28th. June, 1864.

To George F. Shepley
Officer in Command at Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, June 28, 1864.
Is there a man by the name of Amos Tenney in your command, under sentence for desertion? and if so suspend execution, and send me the record. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Cyrus Hamlin

I would like for this appointment to be made if it consistently can be. A. LINCOLN June 29, 1864

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Gen. Grant Executive Mansion, City Point. Washington, June 29. 1864.
Dr. Worster wishes to visit you with a view of getting your permission to introduce into the Army ``Harmon's Sandal Sock'' Shall I give him a pass for that object? A. LINCOLN

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Mrs. A Lincoln Washington, D.C. New-York. June 29. 1864
All well. Tom is moving things out. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate Executive Mansion, of the United States. Washington, D.C., June 29, 1864.
I herewith communicate a report from the Secretary of the Interior, in response to the resolution of the Senate of the 25th. of March last, from which it will be perceived that all the official information possessed by the Department on the subject of colonization has already been communicated to the Senate. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, June 29, 1864.
Hon. J. O. Norton has innocently got into some trouble in telling Jonathan R. Webber, of Ills. that he would be appointed a Commissary of Subsistence. I wish the appointment made so soon as it can be, consistently, in order to relieve our friend Norton. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Frederick Steele
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Steele June 29, 1864
I understand that Congress declines to admit to seats the persons sent as Senators and Representatives from Arkansas. These persons apprehend that, in consequence, you may not support the new State Government then as you otherwise would. My wish is that you give that government and the people there, the same support and protection that you would if the members had been admitted, because in no event, nor in any view of the case, can this do any harm, while it will be the best you can do towards suppressing the rebellion Yours truly A LINCOLN

Authorization for George Harrington
Executive Mansion June 30th 1864.
There being a vacancy in the office of Secretary of the Treasury occasioned by the resignation of the Hon Salmon P. Chase and its acceptance, George Harrington Esq Assistant Secretary is authorized to perform all and singular the duties of Secretary of the Treasury until a successor to Mr Chase shall be commissioned and qualified, or until further order. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Salmon P. Chase
Hon. Salmon P. Chase Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, June 30, 1864.
Your resignation of the office of Secretary of the Treasury, sent me yesterday, is accepted. Of all I have said in commendation of your ability and fidelity, I have nothing to unsay; and yet you and I have reached a point of mutual embarrassment in our official relation which it seems can not be overcome, or longer sustained, consistently with the public service. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

I assent. A. LINCOLN June 30. 1864.

Pass for Edward C. Carrington and Mother
June 30, 1864
Allow Edward C. Carrington, District Attorney of this District, to bring his Mother with him from Harper's Ferry to his own house in Washington A. LINCOLN June 30. 1864

Pass for Annie P. Shepherd
June 30, 1864
Allow this young lady, Miss Annie P. Shepherd to pass with Pay-Master Carpenter  to Point Lookout, & see there, Charles Skinner, Thomas Gold, and Frank Shepherd, prisoners at that place. June 30. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To David Tod
Hon. David Tod Executive Mansion Youngstown, Ohio. Washington, D.C. June 30. 1864
I have nominated you to be Secretary of the Treasury in place of Gov. Chase who has resigned. Please come without a moment's delay. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum: Louisiana Appointments
Executive Mansion, Washington, [c. July], 186
Collector- 	Dennison 	Marshal- 	Bullitt Surveyor- 	Tucker- 	Judge- 	Durell Naval Officer- 	Welles 	Dis. Atty. 	Peabody- Sup. Spec A. 	Flanders- 	Int. Rev 	Smith Post-Master 	Parker- 	Do Do 	Murphy. Sub. Treas. 	May-

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion, Washington, Judge Advocate General July 1, 1864.
Please get the record in the case of Daniel Wormer, and report on it to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order for Release of Political Prisoner
July 1 1864
This man being so well vouched, and talking so much better than any other I have heard, let him take the oath of December 8, and be discharged. A. LINCOLN. July 1, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 1, 1864
If there be a report in the War Department, such as indicated in Judge Underwood's letter within, will the Sec. of War please have it sent to [me], together with these letters. A. LINCOLN July 1. 1864

To David Davis
Hon. D. Davis Washington Bloomington Ills. July 2. 1864
Please give me a summary of the evidence, with your impression, on the Coles county riot cases. I send the same request to Judge Treat. A. LINCOLN

To William P. Fessenden

The within comes to me spontaneously, which I think fit to send to Mr. Fessenden. A. LINCOLN. July 2, 1864.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. July 2, 1864
In answer to the Resolution of the Senate of the 6th. ult. requesting information upon the subject of the African Slave trade, I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State and the papers by which it was accompanied. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington. July 2. 1864.

To Samuel H. Treat
Hon. S. H. Treat Washington, Springfield Ills. July 2, 1864
Please give me a summary of the evidence, with your impression, on the Coles County riot cases. I send the same request to Judge Davis. A LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning an Escort

I believe I need no escort, and unless the Sec. of War directs, none need attend me. A. LINCOLN July 4, 1864

Memorandum of Interview with William P. Fessenden
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 4, 1864.
I have to-day said to Hon. W. P. Fessenden, on his assuming the office of Secretary of the Treasury, that I will keep no person in office in his department, against his express will, so long as I choose to continue him; and he has said to me, that in filling vacancies he will strive to give his willing consent to my wishes in cases when I may let him know that I have such wishes. It is, and will be, my sincere desire, not only to advance the public interest, by giving him complete control of the department, but also to make his position agreeable to him. In Cabinet my view is that in questions affecting the whole country there should be full and frequent consultations, and that nothing should be done particularly affecting any department without consultation with the head of that department.

To John L. Scripps
To---Esq. Executive Mansion, July 4th, 1864.
Dear Sir: Complaint is made to me that you are using your official power to defeat Mr.---'s nomination to Congress. I am well satisfied with Mr.---as a member of Congress, and I do not know that the man who might supplant him would be as satisfactory. But the correct principle I think is, that all our friends should have absolute freedom of choice among our friends. My wish therefore is, that you will do just as you think fit with your own suffrage in the case, and not constrain any of your subordinates to other than he thinks fit with his. this is precisely the rule I inculcated and adhered to on my part, when a certain other nomination now recently made, was being canvassed for. Yours, very truly, A. LINCOLN.

To John W. Garrett
United States Military Telegraph, J. W. Garrett, Prest. War Department. Camden Station. [July 5th. 1864]
You say telegraphic communication is re-established with Sandy Hook. Well, what does Sandy Hook say about operations of Enemy and of Sigel, doing to-day? A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Suspending Writ of Habeas Corpus
July 5, 1864
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, by a proclamation which was issued on the 15th. day of April, 1861, the President of the United States announced and declared that the laws of the United States had been for some time past and then were opposed and the execution thereof obstructed in certain States therein mentioned by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings or by the powers vested in the Marshals by law; And whereas, immediately after the issuing of the said proclamation the land and naval forces of the United States were put into activity to suppress the said insurrection and rebellion; And whereas, the Congress of the United States by an act approved on the 3d. day of March 1863, did enact that during the said rebellion, the President of the United States, whenever in his judgment the public safety may require it, is authorized to suspend the privilege of the writ of Habeas Corpus in any case throughout the United States or in any part thereof; And whereas the said insurrection and rebellion still continue, endangering the existence of the Constitution and Government of the United States; And whereas the military forces of the United States are now actively engaged in suppressing the said insurrection and rebellion, in various parts of the States where the said rebellion has been successful in obstructing the laws and public authorities, especially in the States of Virginia and Georgia; And whereas on the fifteenth day of September last, the President of the United States duly issued his proclamation, wherein he declared that the privilege of the writ of Habeas Corpus should be suspended throughout the United States in the cases where, by the authority of the President of the United States, military, naval and civil officers of the United States or any of them hold persons under their command or in their custody either as prisoners of war, spies, or aiders or abettors of the enemy; or officers, soldiers or seamen enrolled or drafted or mustered or enlisted in or belonging to the land or naval forces of the United States or as deserters therefrom or otherwise amenable to military law or the Rules and Articles of War or the rules or regulations prescribed for the military or naval services by authority of the President of the United States or for resisting a draft or for any other offence against the military or naval service; And whereas many citizens of the State of Kentucky have joined the forces of the insurgents and such insurgents have on several occasions entered the said State of Kentucky in large force, and not without aid and comfort furnished by disaffected and disloyal citizens of the United States residing therein, have not only greatly disturbed the public peace but have overborne the civil authorities and made flagrant civil war, destroying property and life in various parts of that State; and whereas it has been made known to the President of the United States by the officers commanding the national armies, that combinations have been formed in the said State of Kentucky with a purpose of inciting rebel forces to renew the said operations of civil war within the said State, and thereby to embarrass the United States armies now operating in the said States of Virginia and Georgia and even to endanger their safety: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the constitution and laws, do, hereby, declare that in my judgment the public safety especially requires that the suspension of the privilege of the writ of Habeas Corpus so proclaimed in the said proclamation of the 15th. of September, 1863, be made effectual and be duly enforced in and throughout the said State of Kentucky, and that martial law be for the present established therein. I do, therefore, hereby require of the military officers in the said State that the privileges of the writ of Habeas Corpus be effectually suspended within the said State according to the aforesaid proclamation, and that martial law be established therein, to take effect from the date of this proclamation,---the said suspension and establishment of martial law to continue until this proclamation shall be revoked or modified, but not beyond the period when the said rebellion shall have been suppressed or come to an end. And I do hereby require and command, as well all military officers as all civil officers and authorities existing or found within the said State of Kentucky to take notice of this proclamation and to give full effect to the same. The martial law herein proclaimed and the things in that respect herein ordered will not be deemed or taken to interfere with the holding of lawful elections, or with the proceedings of the constitutional legislature of Kentucky or with the administration of justice in the courts of law existing therein between citizens of the United States in suits or proceedings which do not affect the military operations or the constituted authorities of the Government of the United States. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this fifth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty four, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, July 5, 1864.
A few days ago, at the request of Hon. E. H. Webster, and by endorsement on a letter of his stating the reason, I ordered, as I remember, the discharge of James M. Philips, drafted from 5th. election District of Harford Co. Md. Let it now be done. I should have stated that Mr. Webster says my former order has somehow miscarried & can not be found at the Department. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Cadwallader C. Washburn
July 5, 1864
The President declines making any further order in the case of the Presbyterian Church in Memphis.

To Edward Bates

Will Attorney General please have me the copy made, which is required. A. LINCOLN July 6. 1864

To Montgomery Blair
[c. July 6, 1864]
Mr. McPherson was appointed on Mr. Blair's recommendation. What says he to the within? LINCOLN

To Joseph Casey
Executive Mansion, Hon Joseph Casey. Washington, July 6, 1864.
My dear Sir: I am urged to appoint an assistant attorney to your court in place of Mr. McPherson. I believe you once told me, but I am not sure that I correctly remember, what is the wish of the court in regard to the dismissal or retaining of Mr. McPherson. Please tell me again. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
[July 6, 1864]
Will General Grant allow J. R. Gilmore and friend to pass our lines, with ordinary baggage, and go South? A. LINCOLN.

Pass for James R. Gilmore and James F. Jaquess
[July 6, 1864]
Allow J. R. Gilmore and friend to pass, with ordinary baggage, to General Grant at his headquarters. A. LINCOLN.

To Whom It May Concern
[July 6, 1864]
To whom it may concern: The bearer, Col. James F. Jaquess, Seventy-third Illinois, has leave of absence until further orders. A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward

I find the within from Garrett this morning. The big bundle herewith is that we spoke of this morning. A. L. July 6. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, July 6. 1864.
Upon a promise made to Hon. Mr. Harding some time ago, let John L. Collins, a private, and prisoner of War at Camp Douglas, Ills. take the oath of Dec. 8. 1863, and be discharged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the services are needed, let the appointment be made. July 6, 1864 A. LINCOLN.

To Timothy P. Andrews
Executive Mansion, Washington, Pay-Master-General July 7, 1864.
It is even as you stated, that I am now appealed to by Pay-Masters to save them from being sent South. Please send some one in place of George I Riche , of Philadelphia, now ordered South. I feel that your rule is right, and that I ought not to interfere; but the pressure upon me in this case is insupportable. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Parole for Frank L. Wolford
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 7. 1864.
I hereby give my parol of honor, that if allowed, I will forthwith proceed to Louisville Kentucky, and then remain, until the court for my trial shall arrive, when I will report myself to their charge, and that in the mean time I will abstain from public speaking, and every thing intended or calculated to produce excitement. FRANK WOLFORD Col. Wolford is allowed to go on the above conditions. A. LINCOLN

Proclamation of a Day of Prayer
July 7, 1864
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, the Senate and House of Representatives at their last Session adopted a Concurrent Resolution, which was approved on the second day of July instant, and which was in the words following, namely: ``That, the President of the United States be requested to appoint a day for humiliation and prayer by the people of the United States; that he request his constitutional advisers at the head of the executive departments to unite with him as Chief Magistrate of the Nation, at the City of Washington, and the members of Congress, and all magistrates, all civil, military and naval officers,---all soldiers, sailors, and marines, with all loyal and law-abiding people, to convene at their usual places of worship, or wherever they may be, to confess and to repent of their manifold sins; to implore the compassion and forgiveness of the Almighty, that, if consistent with His will, the existing rebellion may be speedily suppressed, and the supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United States may be established throughout all the States; to implore Him as the Supreme Ruler of the World, not to destroy us as a people, nor suffer us to be destroyed by the hostility or connivance of other Nations, or by obstinate adhesion to our own counsels, which may be in conflict with His eternal purposes, and to implore Him to enlighten the mind of the Nation to know and do His will; humbly believing that it is in accordance with His will that our place should be maintained as a united people among the family of nations; to implore Him to grant to our armed defenders and the masses of the people that courage, power of resistance and endurance necessary to secure that result; to implore Him in His infinite goodness to soften the hearts, enlighten the minds, and quicken the consciences of those in rebellion, that they may lay down their arms and speedily return to their allegiance to the United States, that they may not be utterly destroyed, that the effusion of blood may be stayed, and that unity and fraternity may be restored, and peace established throughout all our borders.'' Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, cordially concurring with the Congress of the United States in the penitential and pious sentiments expressed in the aforesaid Resolution, and heartily approving of the devotional design and purpose thereof, do, hereby, appoint the first Thursday of August next, to be observed by the People of the United States as a day of national humiliation and prayer. I do, hereby, further invite and request the Heads of the Executive Departments of this Government, together with all Legislators,---all Judges and Magistrates, and all other persons exercising authority in the land, whether civil, military or naval,---and all soldiers, seamen and marines in the national service,---and all the other loyal and law-abiding People of the United States, to assemble in their preferred places of public worship on that day, and there and then to render to the Almighty and Merciful Ruler of the Universe, such homages and such confessions, and to offer to Him such supplications, as the Congress of the United States have, in their aforesaid Resolution, so solemnly, so earnestly, and so earnestly, and so reverently recommended. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this seventh day of July, in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and sixtyfour, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Please tell me what is there of the Maryland matter? July 7, 1864. A LINCOLN

Proclamation Concerning Reconstruction
July 8, 1864
By the President of the United States. A Proclamation. Whereas, at the late Session, Congress passed a Bill,  ``To guarantee to certain States, whose governments have been usurped or overthrown, a republican form of Government,'' a copy of which is hereunto annexed: And whereas, the  said Bill was presented to the President of the United States,  for his approval, less than one hour before the sine die adjournment of said Session, and was not signed by him: And whereas, the  said Bill contains, among other things, a plan for restoring the States in rebellion to their proper practical relation in the Union, which plan expresses the sense of Congress upon that subject, and which plan it is now thought fit to lay before the people for their consideration: Now,  therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do proclaim, declare, and make known, that, while I am, (as I was in December last, when by proclamation I propounded a plan for restoration) unprepared, by a formal approval of this Bill, to be inflexibly committed to any single plan of restoration; and, while I am also unprepared to declare,  that the free-state constitutions and governments, already adopted and installed in Arkansas and Louisiana, shall be set aside and held for nought, thereby repelling and discouraging the loyal citizens who have set up the same, as to further effort; or to declare a constitutional competency in Congress to abolish slavery in States, but am at the same time sincerely hoping and expecting that  a constitutional amendment, abolishing slavery throughout the nation, may be adopted, nevertheless, I  am fully satisfied with the system for restoration contained in the Bill, as one very proper plan for the loyal people of any State choosing to adopt it; and that I am, and at all times shall be, prepared to give the Executive aid and assistance to any such people, so soon as the military resistance to the United States shall have been suppressed in any such State, and the people thereof shall have sufficiently returned to their obedience to the Constitution and the laws of the United States,---in which cases, military Governors will be appointed, with directions to proceed according to the Bill.  In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington this eighth day of July, in the year of Our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and sixtyfour, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To John W. Garrett
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, J. W. Garrett War Department, Camden Station Washington, D.C., July 9 1864.
What have you heard about a battle at Monococy to-day? We have nothing about it here except what you say. A. LINCOLN.

To Horace Greeley
Hon. Horace Greely Washington, D.C. Dear Sir July 9. 1864
Your letter of the 7th., with inclosures, received. If you can find, any person anywhere professing to have any proposition of Jefferson Davis in writing, for peace, embracing the restoration of the Union and abandonment of slavery, what ever else it embraces, say to him he may come to me with you, and that if he really brings such proposition, he shall, at the least, have safe conduct, with the paper (and without publicity, if he choose) to the point where you shall have met him. The same, if there be two or more persons. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
July 9, 1864
This offence is not so common as to require so severe an example. Prisoner having suffered near a year of imprisonment, the sentence is now remitted. A. LINCOLN July 9. 1864

To William S. Rosecrans
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, War Department, Major General Rosecrans Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Mo. July 9 1864.
When did the Sec. of War telegraph you to release Dr. Barrett? If it is an old thing, let it stand till you hear further. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' War Department Lieut. Gen. Grant Washington City, City-Point, Va July 10---2.P.M. 1864
Your despatch to Gen. Halleck, referring to what I may think in the present emergency, is shown me. Gen. Halleck says we have absolutely no force here fit to go to the field. He thinks that with the hundred day-men, and invalids we have here, we can  defend Washington, and scarcely Baltimore. Besides these, there are about eight thousand not very reliable, under Howe  at Harper's Ferry, with Hunter  approaching that point very slowly, with what number I suppose you know better than I. Wallace with some odds and ends, and part of what came up with Ricketts,  was so badly beaten yesterday at Monocacy, that what is left can attempt no more than to defend Baltimore. What we shall get in from Penn. & N.Y. will scarcely [be] worth counting, I fear. Now what I think is that you should provide to retain your hold where you are certainly, and bring the rest with you personally, and make a vigorous effort to destroy the enemie's force in this vicinity. I think there is really a fair chance to do this if the movement is prompt. This is what I think, upon your suggestion, and is not an order A. LINCOLN

To Thomas Swann and Others
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Thomas Swan & others War Department, Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Md. July 10. 9/20 AM. 1864.
Yours of last night received. I have not a single soldier but whom is being disposed by the Military for the best protection of all. By latest account the enemy is moving on Washington. They can not fly to either place. Let us be vigilant but keep cool. I hope neither Baltimore or Washington will be sacked. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' United States Military Telegraph, Lieut. Gen. Grant War Department, Washington, City-Point, Va July 11. 1864 [8 A.M.]
Yours of 10:30 P.M. yesterday received, and very satisfactory. The enemy will learn of Wright's arrival, and then the difficulty will be to unite Wright and Hunter, South of the enemy before he will recross the Potomac. Some firing between Rockville and here now. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' United States Military Telegraph, Lieut. General Grant War Department, Washington D.C. City Point, Va. July 12. 1864 11/30 A.M.
Vague rumors have been reaching us for two or three days that Longstreet's corps is also on its way this vicinity. Look out for it's absence from your front. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 13, 1864
If there is a vacancy of a brigadier-generalship can be properly assigned to the Cavalry Corps of General Sheridan, let Colonel Alger be appointed to it.

Memorandum Read to Cabinet
Executive Mansion, Washington, [July 14?], 186.
I must myself be the judge, how long to retain in, and when to remove any of you from, his position. It would greatly pain me to discover any of you endeavoring to procure anothers removal, or, in any way to prejudice him before the public. Such endeavor would be a wrong to me; and much worse, a wrong to the country. My wish is that on this subject, no remark be made, nor question asked, by any of you, here or elsewhere, now or hereafter.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War Executive Mansion, Sir. Washington, July 14. 1864.
Your note of to-day, inclosing Gen. Halleck's letter of yesterday, relative to offensive remarks supposed to have been made by the Post-Master-General concerning the Military officers on duty about Washington, is received. The General's letter, in substance demands of me that if I approve the remarks, I shall strike the names of those officers from the rolls; and that if I do not approve them, the Post-Master-General shall be dismissed from the Cabinet. Whether the remarks were really made I do not know; nor do I suppose such knowledge is necessary to a correct response. If they were made I do not approve them; and yet, under the circumstances, I would not dismiss a member of the Cabinet therefor. I do not consider what may have been hastily said in a moment of vexation at so severe a loss, is sufficient ground for so grave a step. Besides this, truth is generally the best vindication against slander. I propose continuing to be myself the judge as to when a member of the Cabinet shall be dismissed. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 14, 1864.
Opinion of Attorney-General as to pay of colored soldiers. Submitted to the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN.

To Horace Greeley
Hon. Horace Greeley Executive Mansion New-York Washington, July 15, 1864
I suppose you received my letter of the 9th. I have just received yours of the 13 and am disappointed by it. I was not expecting you to send me a letter, but to bring me a man, or men. Mr. Hay goes to you with my answer to yours of the 13th. A. LINCOLN

To Horace Greeley
Hon. Horace Greeley Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, July 15. 1864.
Yours of the 13th. is just received; and I am disappointed that you have not already reached here with those Commissioners, if they would consent to come, on being shown my letter to you of the 9th. Inst. Show that and this to them; and if they will come on the terms stated in the former, bring them. I not only intend a sincere effort for peace, but I intend that you shall be a personal witness that it is made. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order for John Hay
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 15, 1864.
Major John Hay, my Private Secretary, goes to New York upon public business of importance. I desire that all necessary facilities may be given to him in the matter of transportation. A. LINCOLN

To L. J. Leberman
Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: July 15, 1864
The suit of garments sent by you, on behalf of Messrs Rockhill & Wilson, came duly to hand; and for which you and they will please accept my thanks. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

Endorsement

This class of appointments I believe is made A.L. July 16. 1864

To John Hay
John Hay. Executive Mansion, Astor-House, N.Y. Washington, July 16. 1864.
Yours received. Write the Safe-conduct, as you propose, without waiting for one by mail from me. If there is, or is not, any thing in the affair, I wish to know it, without unnecessary delay. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Is it or not the opinion of the Sec. of War, that there is a legal appeal to me in this case? A. LINCOLN July 16. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 16, 1864
Lieut. Armes wishes to be promoted to a Captaincy, and on the recommendations of Gen's Grant and Hancock, I am certainly willing, provided there is any place to which he can consistently be appointed. A. LINCOLN July 16. 1864

To Andrew G. Curtin
United States Military Telegraph, Gov. A. G. Curtin War Department. Harrisburg, Pa. July 17. 11/20 A.M. 1864.
Please come here, as soon as convenient, and you and I will absolutely fix up the 2nd. Heavy Artillery matters, before you leave. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
United States Military Telegraph, Lieut. Gen. Grant War Department. City Point, Va. July 17. 11/25. AM. 1864
In your despatch of yesterday to Gen. Sherman, I find the following, towit: ``I shall make a desparate effort to get a position here which will hold the enemy without the necessity of so many men.'' Pressed as we are by lapse of time, I am glad to hear you say this; and yet I do hope you may find a way that the effort shall not be desparate in the sense of great loss of life. A. LINCOLN

To David Hunter
United States Military Telegraph, Major General Hunter War Department. Harper's Ferry, Va. July 17th. 10. A.M. 1864
Yours of this morning received. You misconceive. The order you complain of was only nominally mine; and was framed by those who really made it, with no thought of making you a scape-goat. It seemed to be Gen. Grant's wish that the forces under Gen. Wright and those under you should join and drive at the enemy, under Gen. Wright. Wright had the larger part of the force, but you had the rank. It was thought that you would prefer Crook's commanding your part, to your serving in person under Wright. That is all of it. Gen. Grant wishes you to remain in command of the Department, and I do not wish to order otherwise. A. LINCOLN

To Franklin G. Martindale
[c. July 17, 1864?]
The property of Charles J. Faulkner is exempt from the order of General David S. Hunter for the burning of the residences of prominent citizens of the Shenandoah Valley in retaliation for the burning of the Governor Bradford's house in Maryland by the Confederate forces. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Parole and Discharge for Frank L. Wolford
July [c. 17] 1864
I hereby pledge my honor that I will neither do or say anything which will directly or indirectly tend to hinder, delay, or embarrass the employment and use of colored persons, as soldiers, seamen, or otherwise, in the suppression of the rebellion, so long as the U.S. government chooses to so employ and use them. Col. Frank Wolford is discharged from his parole given me July 7. 1864 and allowed to go at large upon the conditions of the parole by him signed on the other side of the paper. A. LINCOLN July [c. 17] 1864.

To James Speed
Hon. James Speed Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 17th, 1864.
Herewith is a blank parole, in duplicate, for Col. Wolford to sign. Please present them to him, and if he sign them, fill in the proper date to the parole, and to my endorsement; and leave one of the papers with him, and return the other to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Frank L. Wolford
Col. Frank Wolford Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 17--- 1864.
By this mail, I send to Hon. James Speed a blank parole in duplicate, which, if you choose, you can sign, and be discharged. He will call upon you. I inclose a printed copy of the letter I read to you the last day you were with me, and which I shall be pleased for you to look over. Very Respectfully A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
July 18, 1864
If the Governor of Massachusetts understands the case and wishes to give Capt Brooks another Commission the disability is hereby removed enabling him to do so A. LINCOLN July 18 1864

To Joseph Holt
[c. July 18, 1864?]
The sentence in this case of 18 years confinement in the Penitentiary, was approved in July 1863. Will the Judge Advocate General please examine it now as on application for pardon, after the convicted has served more than one year? A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Let this man be enlarged on the same terms and conditions as in Blacks and Spicer's cases. A. LINCOLN July 18, 1864

Proclamation Calling for 500,000 Volunteers
July 18, 1864
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation Whereas, by the act approved July 4, 1864, entitled ``an act further to regulate and provide for the enrolling and calling out the National forces and for other purposes,'' it is provided that the President of the United States may, ``at his discretion, at any time hereafter, call for any number of men as volunteers, for the respective terms of one, two and three years for military service,'' and ``that in case the quota of [or]  any part thereof, of any town, township, ward of a city, precinct, or election district, or of a county not so subdivided, shall not be filled within the space of fifty days after such call, then the President shall immediately order a draft for one year to fill such quota or any part thereof which may be unfilled.'' And whereas, the new enrolment, heretofore ordered, is so far completed as that the aforementioned act of Congress may now be put in operation for recruiting and keeping up the strength of the armies in the field for garrisons, and such military operations as may be required for the purpose of suppressing the rebellion, and restoring the authority of the United States Government in the insurgent States: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do issue this my call for five hundred thousand volunteers for the military service, Provided, nevertheless, that this call shall be reduced by all credits which may be established under section 8 of the aforesaid act on account of persons who have entered the naval service during the present rebellion, and by credits for men furnished to the military service in excess of calls heretofore made. Volunteers will be accepted under this call for one, two, or three years, as they may elect, and will be entitled to the bounty provided by the law, for the period of service for which they enlist. And I hereby proclaim, order and direct, that immediately after the fifth day of September, 1864, being fifty days from the date of this call, a draft for troops to serve for one year shall be had in every town, township, ward of a city, precinct or election district or county not so subdivided to fill the quota which shall be assigned to it under this call, or any part thereof, which may be unfilled, by volunteers on the said fifth day of September 1864. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington, this eighteenth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty four, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To William T. Sherman
Major General Sherman Executive Mansion, Chattahoochee River, Ga. Washington, July 18. 1864.
I have seen your despatches objecting to agents of Northern States opening recruiting stations near your camps. An act of congress authorizes this, giving the appointment of agents to the States, and not to this Executive government. It is not for the War Department, or myself, to restrain, or modify the law, in it's execution, further than actual necessity may require. To be candid, I was for the passage of the law, not apprehending at the time that it would produce such inconvenience to the armies in the field, as you now cause me to fear. Many of the States were very anxious for it, and I hoped that, with their State bounties, and active exertions, they would get out substantial additions to our colored forces, which, unlike white recruits, help us where they come from, as well as where they go to. I still hope advantage from the law; and being a law, it must be treated as such by all of us. We here, will do what we consistently can to save you from difficulties arising out of it. May I ask therefore that you will give your hearty co-operation? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 18, 1864
I believe Mr. Welles has never had a Brig. Genl. on his recommendation. I wish this appointment made, so soon as it can be with consistency. A. LINCOLN July 18. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon Sec. of War please see and hear the bearer. July 18, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

To Whom It May Concern
Executive Mansion, To Whom it may concern: Washington, July 18, 1864.
Any proposition which embraces the restoration of peace, the integrity of the whole Union, and the abandonment of slavery, and which comes by and with an authority that can control the armies now at war against the United States will be received and considered by the Executive government of the United States, and will be met by liberal terms on other substantial and collateral points; and the bearer, or bearers thereof shall have safe-conduct both ways. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Appointment of Government Directors for Union Pacific Railroad
Executive Mansion, July 19th 1864.
By virtue of the authority conferred upon the President of the United States, by the thirteenth section of the act of Congress approved July 2d. 1864, amending the act to aid in the construction of a Rail road and Telegraph line from the Missouri river to the Pacific Ocean &c Jesse L. Williams of Indiana George Ashmun of Massachusetts and Charles Sherman of Ohio are hereby appointed directors on the part of the Government of the United States, for the Union Pacific Rail road and Telegraph Company, to serve until the next ensuing regular election of directors for said Company. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I submit this high recommendation by Gen. Grant of Maj. Hammond, to the special consideration of the Sec. of War. July 19. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Statement of Philadelphia Citizens
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 19. 1864.
We the undersigned citizens of Philadelphia, state that, after considerable investigation, and inquiry, we believe there are in the Philadelphia Post-Office between two hundred and fifty and three hundred employees under the Post-Master, and that no one of them openly supports the renomination of Judge Kelly for Congress, and that several of them say and intimate privately that it is because they are restrained by the Post-Master. THOMAS W. PRICE CHAS. B. BARRETT GEO. I. YOUNG

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Genl. Grant Executive Mansion, City Point, Va Washington, July 20. 1864.
Yours of yesterday about a call for 300,000 is received. I suppose you had not seen the call for 500,000 made the day before, and which I suppose covers the case. Always glad to have your suggestions A. LINCOLN

To John L. Scripps
Hon. J. L. Scripps Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, July 20, 1864.
I have received, and read yours of the 15th. Mine to you, was only a copy, with names changed, of what I had said to another Post-Master, on a similar complaint;  and the two are the only cases in which that precise complaint has, as yet, been made to me. I think that in these cases I have stated the principle correctly for all public officers, and I certainly wish all would follow it. But, I do not quite like to publish a general circular on the subject, and it would be rather laborious to write a seperate letter to each. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Jacob T. Wright
United States Military Telegraph, J. L. Wright. War Department. Indianapolis, Ia. July 20. 1864
All a mistake. Mr. Stanton has not resigned. A. LINCOLN

To William P. Fessenden
Hon. Sec. of Treasury Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, July 21, 1864.
The bearer of this is a most estimable widow lady, at whose house I boarded many years ago when a member of Congress. She now is very needy; & any employment suitable to a lady could not be bestowed on a more worthy person. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum: Appointment of Anning R. Peck
July 21, 1864
Anning R. Peck is a nephew of Gen. Richardson; and I wish to appoint him to West-Point, within the succeeding twelve months. Let me be reminded of this. Born Jany. 29, 1846. A. LINCOLN July 21. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 21, 1864
If there is on file, a request of Gov. Hahn for the release of these men, let them be discharged, upon taking the oath of Dec. 8, 1863, and also an oath that they never have been in favor of the rebellion, or in it's service. A. LINCOLN July 21, 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let E. P. McLean, private in Co. A, 62nd. Penn. Vols, be discharged, on no ground, but that Gov. Curtin, and D. H. A. McLean asks it. July 21. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Orlando B. Ficklin
Hon. O. B. Ficklin Executive Mansion Dear Sir: Washington, July 22, 1864
I had about concluded to send the Coles county men home, turning over the indicted to the authorities, and discharging the others, when Col. Oaks' report, with the evidence he had taken in the case was put in my hand. The evidence is very voluminous, and Col. Oaks says it fully implicates every one of the sixteen now held; and so far as I have been able to look into it, his statement is sustained. I can not now decide the case until I shall have fully examined this evidence. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 22. 1864.
I have said to this lady that I will do for her brother whatever the Sec. of Navy, or Asst. Sec. of Navy, will, in writing on this, sheet, advise me to do. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Please send me. A. LINCOLN July 23. 1864

To David Hunter
``Cypher'' United States Military Telegraph, Major Gen. Hunter War Department. Harpers Ferry, Va. July 23. 1864 [8 A.M.]
Are you able to take care of the enemy when he turns back upon you, as he probably will  on finding that Wright has left? A. LINCOLN.

To John P. Usher
July 24, 1864
I know nothing personally of Mr. Rohrer, but shall be very glad if the Sec. of Interior can oblige the gentlemen who write the within letter. A. LINCOLN July 24. 1864

To Edward R. S. Canby
Washington, D.C., Major General Canby: July 25. 1864.
Frequent complaints are made to me that persons endeavoring to bring in cotton in strict accordance with the trade regulations of the Treasury Department, are frustrated by seizures of District Attorneys, Marshals, Provost-Marshals and others, on various pretences, all looking to black-mail, and spoils, one way and another. I wish, if you can find time, you would look into this matter within your Department, and finding these abuses to exist, break them up, if in your power, so that fair dealing under the regulations, can proceed. The printed Regulations, no doubt, are accessable to you. If you find the abuses existing, and yet beyond your power, please report to me somewhat particularly upon the facts. The bearer of this Shaffer, is one who, on behalf of himself and firm, makes complaint; but while he is my friend, I do not ask anything for him which can not be done for all honest dealers under the Regulations. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Andrew G. Curtin
Executive Mansion, Gov. Curtin. Washington, July 25, 1864.
Herewith is the manuscript letter for the gentleman who sent me a cane through your hands. For my life I can not make out his name; and therefore I cut it from his letter and pasted it on, as you see. I suppose [you] will remember who he is, and I will thank you to forward him the letter. He dates his letter at Philadelphia. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To the Loyal Ladies of Trenton, New Jersey
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 25, 1864.
The Loyal Ladies of Trenton, New Jersey: At the Philadelphia Fair, about the middle of last month, a very pretty Cane, with hallowed associations, was presented to me, on your behalf, by a worthy revered gentleman, whose name, I regret to say, I cannot now remember. Please accept my sincere thanks, which, in my many duties, I have not found time to tender sooner. Your ob't servant, A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of William C. Collier
July 25, 1864
If Beverly Allen has declined the Cadetship tendered him, & the place has not been filled, let William C. Collier, named within, be appointed---this, on the recommendation of Gen. Hitchcock. July 25. 1864. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum on Clement C. Clay
Executive Mansion, Washington, [c. July 25], 1864
Hon. Clement C. Clay, one of the Confederate gentlemen who recently, at Niagara Falls, in a letter to Mr. Greeley, declared that they were not empowered to negotiate for peace, but that they were , however, in the confidential employment of their government, has prepared a Platform and an Address to be adopted by the Democracy at the Chicago Convention, the preparing of these, and conferring with the democratic leaders in regard to the same, being the confidential employment of their government, in which he, and his confreres are engaged. The following planks are in the Platform--- 5. The war to be further prossecuted only to restore the Union as it was , and only in such manner, that no further detriment to slave property shall be effected. 6. All negro soldiers and seamen to be at once disarmed and degraded to menial service in the Army and Navy; and no additional negroes to be, on any pretence whatever, taken from their masters. 7 All negroes not having enjoyed actual freedom during the war to be held permanently as slaves; and whether those who shall have enjoyed actual freedom during the war, shall be free to be a legal question. The following paragraphs are in the Address--- ``Let all who are in favor of peace; of arresting the slaughter of our countrymen, of saving the country from bankruptcy & ruin, of securing food & raiment & good wages for the laboring classes; of disappointing the enemies of Democratic & Republican Government who are rejoicing in the overthrow of their proudest monuments; of vindicating our capacity for self-government, arouse and maintain these principles, and elect these candidates.'' ``The stupid tyrant who now disgraces the Chair of Washington and Jackson could, any day, have peace and restoration of the Union; and would have them, only that he persists in the war merely to free the slaves.'' The convention may not litterally adopt Mr. Clay's Platform and Address, but we predict it will do so substantially. We shall see. Mr. Clay confesses to his Democratic friends that he is for peace and disunion ; but, he says ``You can not elect without a cry of war for the union; but, once elected, we are friends, and can adjust matters somehow.'' He also says ``You will find some difficulty in proving that Lincoln could, if he would, have peace and re-union, because Davis has not said so, and will not say so; but you must assert it, and re-assert it, and stick to it, and it will pass as at least half proved.''

To William O. Snider
Executive Mansion, Wm. O. Snider Washington, July 25. 1864.
The cane you did me the honor to present throough [ sic ] Gov. Curtin was duly placed in my hand by him. Please accept my thanks; and at the same time, pardon me for not having sooner found time to tender them. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Robert F. Taylor
Executive Mansion, Washington, July 25. 1864.
Thomas Connor, a private in the 1st. Veteran New-York Cavalry, is now imprisoned at hard labor for desertion. If the Colonel of said Regiment will say in writing on this sheet, that he is willing to receive him back to the Regiment, I will pardon, and send him. A. LINCOLN

To Abram Wakeman
Private Executive Mansion, Abram Wakeman, Esq Washington, My dear Sir: July 25, 1864.
I feel that the subject which you pressed upon my attention in our recent conversation is an important one. The men of the South, recently (and perhaps still) at Niagara Falls, tell us distinctly that they are in the confidential employment of the rebellion; and they tell us as distinctly that they are not empowered to offer terms of peace. Does any one doubt that what they are empowered to do, is to assist in selecting and arranging a candidate and a platform for the Chicago convention? Who could have given them this confidential employment but he who only a week since declared to Jaquess and Gilmore that he had no terms of peace but the independence of the South---the dissolution of the Union? Thus the present presidential contest will almost certainly be no other than a contest between a Union and a Disunion candidate, disunion certainly following the success of the latter. The issue is a mighty one for all people and all time; and whoever aids the right, will be appreciated and remembered. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To James C. Welling
J. C. Welling, Esq Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, July 25. 1864.
According to the request contained in your note, I have placed Mr. Gibson's letter of resignation in the hands of the President. He has read the letter, and says he accepts the resignation, as he will be glad to do with any other which may be tendered, as this is, for the purpose of taking an attitude of hostility against him. He says he was not aware that he was so much indebted to Mr. Gibson for having accepted the office at first, not remembering that he ever pressed him to do so, or that he gave it otherwise than as was usual, upon request made on behalf of Mr. Gibson. He thanks Mr. Gibson for his acknowledgment that he has been treated with personal kindness and consideration; and he says he knows of but two small draw-backs upon Mr. Gibson's right to still receive such treatment, one of which is that he never could learn of his giving much attention to the duties of his office, and the other is this studied attempt of Mr. Gibson's  to stab him I am very truly, Your obedient servant JOHN HAY.

To Edward Bates

I supose the other papers alluded to are in the Atty Genls. Dept. Add these. A. LINCOLN July 26. 1864

To William T. Sherman
`` Cypher '' United States Military Telegraph, Major General Sherman. War Department. Near Atlanta. Washington, July 26. 1864
I have just seen yours, complaining of the appointment of Hovey and Osterhaus. The point you make is unquestionably a good one; and yet please hear a word from us. My recollection is that both Gen. Grant and yourself recommended both H & O. for promotion; and these, with other strong recommendations, drew committals from us which we could neither honorably or safely, disregard. We blamed H. for coming away in the manner in which he did; but we knew he had apparant reason to feel disappointed and mortified, and we felt it was not best to crush one who certainly had been a good soldier. As to O. we did not know of his leaving at the time we made the appointment, and do not now know the terms on which he left. Not to have appointed him, as the case appeared to us at the time, would have been almost if not quite a violation of our word. The word was given on what we thought was high merit, and somewhat on his nationality. I beg you to believe we do not act in a spirit of disregarding merit. We expect to await your programme, for further changes and promotions in your army. My profoundest thanks to you and your whole Army for the present campaign so far. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion Sir: Washington July 26, 1864
Gen. Geo. H. Gordon, now at Memphis, is out of service, and wishes to be assigned to duty---in the Army of the Potomac if convenient. I know nothing particularly of him; but let his case be looked into, & if there be no valid objections, let him be put to work. Yours truly A LINCOLN

Appointment of Richard W. Thompsonas Commissioner to Examine Union Pacific Railroads
Executive Mansion, July 27th 1864.
By virtue of the authority vested in the President of the United States, by the sixth section of an act entitled ``an act to amend an act entitled `an act to aid in the construction of a Rail road and Telegraph line from the Missouri river to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the Government the use of the same for postal, military and other purposes' '' approved July 2d 1864: Richard W. Thompson, of Indiana, is hereby appointed a Commissioner, to examine the road or roads authorized by said acts to be constructed by the ``Union Pacific Rail road Company,'' and the ``Union Pacific Rail road Company, Eastern division,'' and make report to him in relation thereto as contemplated and specified by said acts. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Gen. Grant Executive Mansion City-Point Va. Washington D. C. July 27, 1864
Please have a Surgeons examination of Cornelius Lee Comyges in Co. A. 183rd. Vols. made on the questions of general health and sanity. A LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion, Washington, Judge Advocate General: July 27, 1864.
It seems a man by the name of James Barrett alias Geo. Barrett alias Thomas Barrett, has been confined for aiding a soldier to desert. Please procure the papers and report to me on the case. Yours Truly, A. LINCOLN.

To David Hunter
`` Cypher '' United States Military Telegraph, Major Gen. Hunter War Department. Washington, Harper's Ferry, Va July 27. 1864 [8:30 A. M.]
Please send any recent news you have---particularly as to movements of the enemy. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
`` Cypher '' United States Military Telegraph, Gov. Johnson. War Department. Nashville, Tenn. Washington, July 27. 1864
Yours in relation to Gen. A. C. Gillam just received. Will look after the matter to-day. I also received yours about Gen. Carl Schurz. I appreciate him certainly as highly as you do; but you can never know until you have the trial, how difficult it is to find a place for an officer of so high rank, when there is no place seeking him A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
July 27, 1864
I know not how much is within the legal power of the government in this case; but it is certainly true in equity, that the laboring women in our employment, should be paid at the least as much as they were at the beginning of the war. Will the Secretary of War please have the case fully examined, and so much relief given as can be consistently with the law and the public service. July 27. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, July 28, 1864.
The Solicitor of the Court of Claims, Mr. Gibson, has resigned; and Judge Casey, expressing anxiety to have a good man, suggest Hon. John A. Bingham of Ohio. Please send me an appointment for him. Also send me one for John J. Weed of Illinois, to be Assistant Solicitor in place of Mr. McPherson who is always ready to resign, as I understand. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Richard Delafield

Gen. Delafield will oblige me if he will furnish to Mr Schumacher a copy Lt. Col. Alexander's report in the case within mentioned. July 28. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To John W. Forney
Hon. John W. Forney Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, July 28. 1864.
Your note announcing your intended visit to Europe takes me somewhat by surprise. Nevertheless I am glad for you to have the relaxation, though I regret the necessity which compels it. I have no European personal acquaintances, or I would gladly give you letters. I shall be pleased to see you in Washington before you leave, for a special reason; and the sooner you could come, the better. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John W. Forney
United States Military Telegraph, Hon. J. W. Forney War Department. Philadelphia, Penn. Washington July 28. 1864
I wish yourself and M. McMichael would see me here tomorrow, or early in the day Saturday. A. LINCOLN

To James B. Fry

Provost Marshal General please see Mr. Ferry, and examine this case; and if you cannot do what is desired, report to me on the case July 28, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Executive Mansion, Lieut. Genl. Grant Washington, City Point, Va. July 28, 1864.
Will meet you at Fort-Monroe at 8. P.M. on Saturday the 30th. unless you shall notify me that it will be inconvenient to you. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' United States Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department. City Point, Va Washington. July 29. 1864
I have changed my purpose, so that now I expect to reach FortMonroe at 10. A. M. Sunday, the 31st. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

J. A. G. please report. A. LINCOLN July 29. 1864

Memorandum:Appointment of James H. Jackson

This is a good case. Please file it & give it a chance. A.L. July 29. 1864 West-Point

To William H. Seward

Will the Sec. of State please see & hear Mr. Conkling,  who is a particular friend & fellow townsman of mine? A. LINCOLN July 29. 1864

To Mrs. Anne Williamson
Executive Mansion, Washington, Mrs. Anne Williamson--- July 29, 1864.
Madam: The plaid you send me is just now placed in my hands. I thank you for that pretty and useful present, but still more for those good wishes to myself and our country which prompted you to present it. Your ob't servant, A. LINCOLN.

Appointment of George Harrington
Washington, July 30th. 1864
George Harrington, is hereby appointed to discharge the duties of Secretary of the Treasury, during the absence of Wm. P. Fessenden, the Secretary. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Approval of Treasury Regulations
Executive Mansion Washington July 30. 1864
The following Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury having been seen and considered by me are hereby approved; and commercial intercourse in the cases and under the restrictions described and expressed in the Regulations, is licensed and authorised; and all officers and privates of the regular and volunteer forces of the United States and officers sailors and marines in the naval service will observe the said Regulations and the provisions of the several acts of congress appended thereto, to which they relate, and will render all assistance not incompatible with military or naval operations to officers and agents of the Treasury Department Executing the same. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To John A. Bingham
Hon. John A. Bingham Executive Mansion Cadiz, Ohio Washington D. C. July 30. 1864
Mr. Gibson having resigned, I have appointed you Solicitor of the U. S. in the Court of Claims. A. LINCOLN.

To David Hunter
Major General Hunter. Executive Mansion Harpers Ferry, Va. Washington D. C. July 30. 1864
What news this morning? A. LINCOLN

To John A. McClernand
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General McClernand. July 30, 1864.
Understanding that your leave of absence expires on the 8th. of next month, the same is hereby extended until further order Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Moses F. Odell
Hon. M. Odell. Executive Mansion, Brooklyn. Washington, July 30, 1864.
Please find Col. Fowler of 14th. Vols. and have him Telegraph, if he will, a recommendation for Clemens J. Myers, for a Clerkship. A. LINCOLN

Reply to Joseph Bertinatti
July 30, 1864
Mr. Commander BERTINATTI: I am free to confess that the United States have in the course of the last three years encountered vicissitudes and been involved in controversies which have tried the friendship, and even the forbearance of other nations, but at no stage of this unhappy fraternal war, in which we are only endeavoring to save and strengthen the foundations of our national unity, has the King or the people of Italy faltered in addressing to us the language of respect, confidence, and friendship. We have tried you, Mr. Bertinatti, as a Charge d' Affaires and as a Minister Resident, and in both of these characters we have found you always sincerely and earnestly interpreting the loyal sentiments of your sovereign. At the same time I am sure that no Minister here has more faithfully maintained and advanced the interests with which he was charged by his Government. I desire that your countrymen may know that I think you have well deserved the elevation to which I owe the pleasure of the present interview. I pray God to have your country in his holy keeping, and to vouchsafe to crown with success her noble aspirations to renew, under the auspices of her present enlightened Government, her ancient career, so wonderfully illustrated by the achievements of art, science, and freedom.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Sec. of War. July 30, 1864.
Charles David Fenton, now in prison at Fort Delaware, is pardoned, and to be discharged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin D. Morgan
`` Cypher .'' Executive Mansion Gov. E. D. Morgan Washington, D. C. Saratoga Springs, N. Y. Aug. 1. 1864
Please come here at once. I wish to see you. A LINCOLN

To Mrs. William A. Hammond
[August 2, 1864]
Under the circumstances, I should prefer not seeing Mrs. Hammond. A. LINCOLN.

To Charles XV
August 3, 1864
ABRAHAM LINCOLN: President of the United States of America: To His Majesty Charles XV. King of Sweden and Norway. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 26th. of April last, announcing the marriage of His Royal Highness, Prince Nicolas Auguste of Sweden and Norway, Duke of Dalecarlia, to Her most Serene Highness, Madame the Princess Therese Amelie Caroline Josephine Antoinette of Saxe Altenbourg, at the Ducal Chateau of Altenbourg, the 16th. of April 1864. I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event, and offer to Your Majesty my sincere congratulations on the occasion. And so I recommend Your Majesty and Your Majesty's Royal Family to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend, Washington, August 3d. 1864 ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President, WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Francis Joseph I
August 3, 1864
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America. To His Imperial and Royal Majesty Francis Joseph I, Emperor of Austria &c &c Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty has been pleased to address to me, conveying the melancholy intelligence of the decease, on the 2d. of April last, of the Archduchess Hildegarde, wife of Your Majesty's well beloved cousin, the Archduke Albrecht. I deeply sympathize in the grief with which this afflicting event has filled Your Majesty, and I pray Your Majesty to accept for yourself, and for Your Royal Family, my cordial condolence. May God have Your Majesty in his holy keeping. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, August 3d. 1864. By the President, WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Cypher . Office U. S. Military Telegraph,
Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D. C., August 3, 1864.
I have seen your despatch in which you say ``I want Sheridan put in command of all the troops in the field, with instructions to put himself South of the enemy, and follow him to the death. Wherever the enemy goes, let our troops go also.'' This, I think, is exactly right, as to how our forces should move. But please look over the despatches you may have receved from here, even since you made that order, and discover, if you can, that there is any idea in the head of any one here, of ``putting our army South of the enemy'' or of following him to the death '' in any direction. I repeat to you it will neither be done nor attempted unless you watch it every day, and hour, and force it. A. LINCOLN

To Leopold
August 3, 1864
Abraham Lincoln: President of the United States of America. To His Majesty Leopold, King of the Belgians. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 25th. of May last, announcing that the Duchess of Brabant, Your Majesty's well beloved daughter-in-law, had been happily delivered of a Princess, upon whom the names of Stephanie Clotilde Louise Herminie Marie Charlotte had been bestowed. I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event, and offer to Your Majesty my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. And so I recommend Your Majesty, and Your Majesty's Royal Family to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend, Washington, August. 3d. 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN, By the President, WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 3, 1864
The Secretary of War, will suspend the order of Gen. Hunter, mentioned within, until further order, and direct him to send to the Department, a brief report of what is known against, each one proposed to be dealt with. A. LINCOLN Aug. 3. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War please see & hear the bearer, Mr. Burns. Aug. 3. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To William I
August 3, 1864
Abraham Lincoln: President of the United States of America. To His Majesty William I, King of Prussia &c &c Great and Good Friend, I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 24th. of April last, announcing that the wife of the Hereditary Prince of Hohenzollern Sigmaringen, Her Royal Highness Madame the Princess Antonie, sister of His Majesty the King of Portugal and the Algarves, had on the 7th. of March last, given safe birth to a Prince; upon whom the names of Guillaume Auguste Charles Joseph Ferdinand Pierre Benoit had been bestowed. I participate in the satisfaction which this happy event has afforded to Your Majesty, and to Your Majesty's Royal Family, and offer my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. May God have Your Majesty always in his safe and holy keeping. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, August 3d. 1864. By the President, WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Charles A. Dana

Can Mr. Dana give me any account of this case? Aug. 4, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
August 4, 1864
Please send by the bearer the record in the case of A. J. Smith. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Hon. Sec. of Navy, please see and hear this North-Carolina Delegation. A. LINCOLN Aug. 4. 1864.

To Frank L. Wolford
`` Cypher '' War Department Col. Frank Wolford. Washington City, Louisville, Ky. August 4 1864
Yours of yesterday received. Before interfering with the Judge Advocate General's order, I should know his reasons for making it. Meanwhile, if you have not already started, wait till you hear from me again. Did you receive letter and inclosures from me? A LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
[c. August 5, 1864]
For one of these, Judge Watts, says Sydney A. Hubbell now at Davenport, Iowa should be appointed. A.L.

To Morton McMichael
Private Executive Mansion, Hon. Morton McMichael Washington, My dear Sir. August 5. 1864.
When the Philadelphia Post-Master was here on the 20th. of June last, I read to him a paper in the following words: (Here copy it in)  He promised me to strictly follow this. I am now told that, of the two or three hundred employees in the Post-Office, not one of them is openly for Judge Kelly. This, if true, is not accidental. Left to their free choice, there can be no doubt that a large number of them, probably as much or more than half, would be for Kelly. And if they are for him, and are not restrained, they can put it beyond question by publicly saying so. Please tell the Post-Master he must find a way to relieve me from the suspicion that he is not keeping his promise to me in good faith. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Francis H. Peirpoint
Gov. Pierpoint Executive Mansion, Alexandria, Va. Washington, Aug. 5. 1864.
Gen. Butler telegraphs me that Judge Snead is at liberty. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
[August 5, 1864]
I will come over in a few minutes. A.L.

To Samuel M. Bowman
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Col.S.M. Bowman War Department, Baltimore, Md. Washington, D.C., August 6. 1864.
If convenient, come and see me. A. LINCOLN

To Horace Greeley
Hon. Horace Greeley Executive Mansion, New-York. Washington, August 6. 1864.
Yours to Major Hay about publication of our correspondence received. With the suppression of a few passages in your letters, in regard to which I think you and I would not disagree, I should be glad of the publication. Please come over and see me. A. LINCOLN

To John McMahon
John McMahon Washington, D.C. Harmbrook, Bradford Co Penn. Aug. 6. 1864
The President has received yours of yesterday, and is kindly paying attention to it. As it is my business to assist him whenever I can, I will thank you to inform me, for his use, whether you are either a white man or black one, because in either case, you can not be regarded as an entirely impartial judge. It may be that you belong to a third or fourth class of yellow or red men, in which case the impartiality of your judgment would be more apparant.

To Anson S. Miller
Hon. Anson Miller Executive Mansion Rockford, Ills. Washington, D.C. Aug. 6. 1864
If you will go and live in New-Mexico, I will appoint you a judge there. Answer. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I shall be glad to have this done. A. LINCOLN Aug. 6. 1864.

To Isaac N. Arnold
Hon. I. N. Arnold. Executive Mansion Chicago  Washington D.C. Aug. 8. 1864
I send you by mail to-day, the appointment of Col. Mulligan to be a Brevet Brigadier General. A. LINCOLN

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Burbridge War Department, Lexington, Ky. Washington, D.C., August 8.th. 1864.
Last December Mrs. Emily T. Helm, half-sister of Mrs. L. and widow of the rebel general Ben. Hardin Helm stopped here on her way from Georgia to Kentucky, and I gave her a paper, as I remember, to protect her against the mere fact of her being Gen. Helm's widow. I hear a rumor to-day that you recently sought to arrest her, but was prevented by her presenting the paper from me. I do not intend to protect her against the consequences of disloyal words or acts, spoken or done by her since her return to Kentucky, and if the paper given her by me can be construed to give her protection for such words or acts, it is hereby revoked pro tanto . Deal with her for current conduct, just as you would with any other . A. LINCOLN

To Horace Greeley
Hon. Horace Greeley Executive Mansion, New-York. Washington, August 8. 1864.
I telegraphed you Saturday. Did you receive the despatch? Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To the Shakers
Executive Mansion, Washington, My good friends August 8, 1864.
I wish to express to you my cordial thanks for the very comfortable chair you sent me some time since and to tell you how gratefully I appreciate the kindness which prompted the present. And I must beg that you will pardon the length of time that, through an oversight in my office, has elapsed without an acknowledgment of your kindness. I am very truly Yr. friend & Servt

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 8, 1864
Will the Sec. of War please give Major Williams, some sort of hearing before I am required to approve or disapprove his dismissal. This is one of a batch of cases, and perhaps it would be well to give a hearing to the whole batch. A. LINCOLN Aug. 8. 1864.

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Banks. August 9. 1864.
I have just seen the new Constitution adopted by the Convention of Louisiana; and I am anxious that it shall be ratified by the people. I will thank you to let the civil officers in Louisiana, holding under me, know that this, is my wish, and to let me know at once who of them openly declare for the constitution, and who of them, if any, decline to so declare. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Butler: August 9, 1864.
Your paper of the about Norfolk matters is received, as also was your other, on the same general subject dated, I believe some time in February last. This subject has caused considerable trouble, forcing me to give a good deal of time and reflection to it. I regret that crimination and recrimination are mingled in it. I surely need not to assure you that I have no doubt of your loyalty and devoted patriotism; and I must tell you that I have no less confidence in those of Gov. Pierpoint and the Attorney General. The former, at first, as the loyal governor of all Virginia, including that which is now West-Virginia; in organizing and furnishing troops, and in all other proper matters, was as earnest, honest, and efficient to the extent of his means, as any other loyal governor. The inauguration of West-Virginia as a new State left to him, as he assumed, the remainder of the old State; and the insignificance of the parts which are outside of the rebel lines, and consequently within his reach, certainly gives a somewhat farcical air to his dominion; and I suppose he, as well as I, has considered that it could be useful for little else than as a nucleous to add to. The Attorney General only needs to be known to be relieved from all question as to loyalty and thorough devotion to the national cause; constantly restraining as he does, my tendency to clemency for rebels and rebel sympathizers. But he is the Law-Officer of the government, and a believer in the virtue of adhering to law. Coming to the question itself, the Military occupancy of Norfolk is a necessity with us. If you, as Department commander, find the cleansing of the City necessary to prevent pestilence in your army---street lights, and a fire department, necessary to prevent assassinations and incendiarism among your men and stores---wharfage necessary to land and ship men and supplies---a large pauperism, badly conducted, at a needlessly large expense to the government, and find also that these things, or any of them, are not reasonably well attended to by the civil government, you rightfully may, and must take them into your own hands. But you should do so on your own avowed judgment of a military necessity, and not seem to admit that there is no such necessity, by taking a vote of the people on the question. Nothing justifies the suspending of the civil by the military authority, but military necessity, and of the existence of that necessity the military commander, and not a popular vote, is to decide. And whatever is not within such necessity should be left undisturbed. In your paper of February you fairly notified me that you contemplated taking a popular vote; and, if fault there be, it was my fault that I did not object then, which I probably should have done, had I studied the subject as closely as I have since done. I now think you would better place whatever you feel is necessary to be done, on this distinct ground of military necessity, openly discarding all reliance for what you do, on any election. I also think you should so keep accounts as to show every item of money received and how expended. The course here indicated does not touch the case when the military commander finding no friendly civil government existing, may, under the sanction or direction of the President, give assistance to the people to inaugerate one.

To Edward R. S. Canby
To Major General Edward R. S. Canby Commanding the Military Division Executive Mansion, of West Mississippi; New Orleans. August 9, 1864.
For satisfactory reasons which concern the public service I have to direct that if Andrew J. Hamilton, or any person authorized in writing by him, shall come out of either of the ports of Galveston or Sabine Pass with any vessel or vessels freighted with cotton shipped to the agent of the Treasury Department at New Orleans, the passage of such person, vessels and cargoes shall not be molested or hindered, but they shall be permitted to pass to the hands of such consignee. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To William P. Fessenden
Hon. William P. Fessenden, Executive Mansion, Secretary of the Treasury. Aug. 9, 1864.
Sir: You are requested to place to the credit of the Department of State the sum of $25,000 as appropriated in the seventh section of the Act entitled ``An Act to encourage immigration,'' approved July 4, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Horace Greeley
Private Hon. Horace Greeley, Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, August 9, 1864.
Herewith is a full copy of the correspondence, and which I have had privately printed, but not made public. The parts of your letters which I wish suppressed, are only those which, as I think, give too gloomy an aspect to our cause, and those which present the carrying of elections as a motive of action. I have, as you see, drawn a red pencil over the parts I wish suppressed. As to the A. H. Stephens matter, so much pressed by you, I can only say that he sought to come to Washington in the name of the ``Confederate States,'' in a vessel of ``The Confederate States Navy,'' and with no pretence even, that he would bear any proposal for peace; but with language showing that his mission would be Military, and not civil, or diplomatic. Nor has he at any time since pretended that he had terms of peace, so far as I know, or believe. On the contrary, Jefferson Davis has, in the most formal manner, declared that Stephens had no terms of peace. I thought we could not afford to give this quasi acknowledgement of the independence of the Confederacy, in a case where there was not even an intimation of any thing for our good. Still, as the parts of your letters relating to Stephens contain nothing worse than a questioning of my action, I do not ask a suppression of those parts. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Attorney General August 10, 1864.
Please send me appointments for Nathaniel Usher, of Indiana, and Sydney A. Hubbell, of New-Mexico, to be Judges in New-Mexico, in place, of Judges Brochus and Knapp. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please report on this case. Aug. 10. 1864. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Alice Maria Waring

Miss Alice Maria Waring may be allowed to remain in Maryland with her parents  if she behaves herself from this time forward August 10. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Thaddeus Stevens

If Hon. Thadeus Stevens will say in writing, on this papers, that he wishes this man discharged, I will discharge him. Aug. 10, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Sec. of Navy, please see & hear Mrs. Dr. Bacon, about a Naval appointment. A. LINCOLN Aug. 10. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, August 11. 1864.
I should be glad for Gen. Mott, of New-Jersey, to have a Brevt. Major Generalship. He has done a great deal of hard service, has been twice (I believe) wounded; and, is now, by assignment of his superiors, commanding a Division. Add to this that I have been for a year trying to find an opportunity to promote him, as you know. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Pass for John Eaton

Allow the bearer, Col. Eaton to pass to, and visit Gen. Grant at City-Point, Va. A. LINCOLN Aug. 12. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War of War [ sic ], please see & hear Col. Eaton, whom Gen. Grant thinks is one of the best contraband agents. A. LINCOLN Aug. 12, 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

This case will go according to the rules without my interference, and I can not consistently ask for more. A. LINCOLN August 12. 1864

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please procure record and make report in this case. A. LINCOLN Aug. 13. 1864

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., August 14 1864.
The Secretary of War and I concur that you better confer with Gen. Lee and stipulate for a mutual discontinuance of house-burning and other destruction of private property. The time and manner of conference, and particulars of stipulation we leave, on our part, to your convenience and judgment. A. LINCOLN

To Atanasio Cruz Aguirre
August 15, 1864
Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, To His Excellency Senor Don Atanasio Cruz Aguirre, President of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which you addressed to me on the first day of March last, informing me of your Excellency's elevation to the Presidency of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay,---the constitutional term of the citizen Bernardo Prudencio Berro being completed, and in virtue of the prescriptions of the political code of the State. I congratulate your Excellency upon your accession to this high and important position, and confiding in your sagacity and statesmanship, I feel satisfied that the trust conferred upon you will be faithfully discharged for the best interests of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay. It shall be my constant endeavor so to conduct the relations between our respective countries as to strengthen the good understanding which now happily subsists. I pray your Excellency to accept the assurances of my earnest wishes for your personal happiness, and for the welfare and prosperity of the people of Uruguay. And so commending you to the care of the Almighty, I remain your Excellency's Good Friend. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State. Washington, August 15th, 1864.

To Henry J. Raymond
Hon. Henry J. Raymond Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, August 15, 1864.
I have proposed to Mr Greely that the Niagara correspondence be published, suppressing only the parts of his letters over which the red-pencil is drawn in the copy which I herewith send. He declines giving his consent to the publication of his letters unless these parts be published with the rest. I have concluded that it is better for me to submit, for the time, to the consequences of the false position in which I consider he has placed me, than to subject the country to the consequences of publishing these discouraging and injurious parts. I send you this, and the accompanying copy, not for publication, but merely to explain to you, and that you may preserve them until their proper time shall come. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Recommendation
August 15, 1864
I am always for the man who wishes to work; and I shall be glad for this man to get suitable employment at Calvary Depot, or elsewhere. A. LINCOLN August 15. 1864

Recommendation for Discharge
August 15, 1864
It seems to me that unless there is ground to suspect the correctness of the correctness [ sic ] of the within statement, this man should be allowed to take the oath & be discharged. A. LINCOLN Aug 15. 1864

To William T. Sherman
`` Cypher '' Major General Sherman Executive Mansion Near Atlanta, Ga. Washington D C. Aug. 15 1864
If the government should purchase, on it's own account, cotton Northward of you and on the line of your communications, would it be an inconvenience to you, or detriment to the Military service, for it to come to the North on the Railroad? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I agree to this appointment. A. LINCOLN August 15. 1864

To John P. Usher

The first time the Sec. of Interior call[s] here will he please mention the DeJanon case? A. LINCOLN Aug. 15, 1864

To Joseph K. Barnes
Executive Mansion, Surgeon General Washington, August , 1864.
Please have a special examination & report made of the physical condition of Michael Burns, a private now at Stanton Hospital. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Hon. Attorney General Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, August 16. 1864.
Send me a recess commission for Delos Lake to be Attorney for the District of California. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To William P. Fessenden
Hon. Sec. of the Treasury Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, August 16. 1864.
If by any means a new Collector of Internal Revenue is to [be] made in the District (made or to be made) in which Frankfort, Ky is, or will be situated, I wish Albert G. Hodges, to be appointed. He is the man to whom I wrote the Hodges letter, which has been, published. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
August 16, 1864
Sentence approved, except as to Cashiering, & the officer is hereby dishonorably dismissed the service. A. LINCOLN Aug. 16. 1864. Judge Advocate General please procure record & report. Jan. 27. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Ward Hunt
Hon. Ward Hunt Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, August 16. 1864.
Yours of the 9th. Inst. was duly received, and submitted to Secretary Seward. He makes a response which I herewith inclose to you.  I add for myself that I am for the regular nominee in all cases; and that no one could be more satisfactory to me as the nominee in that District, than Mr. Conkling. I do not mean to say there [are] not others as good as he in the District; but I think I know him to be at least good enough. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Appointment of William Helmick
Executive Office Washington, Augt. 17th 1864.
William Helmick, is hereby appointed, Acting Commissioner of Pensions, during the temporary absence of Jos. H. Barrett, the Commissioner, from the Seat of Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Lieut. Gen. Grant Executive Mansion, City Point, Va. Washington, August 17. 1864.
I have seen your despatch expressing your unwillingness to break your hold where you are. Neither am I willing. Hold on with a bull-dog gripe, and chew & choke, as much as possible. A. LINCOLN

To Charles D. Robinson
Hon. Charles D. Robinson Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, August 17, 1864.
Your letter of the 7th. was placed in my hand yesterday by Gov. Randall. To me it seems plain that saying re-union and abandonment of slavery would be considered, if offered, is not saying that nothing else or less would be considered, if offered. But I will not stand upon the mere construction of language. It is true, as you remind me, that in the Greeley letter of 1862, I said: ``If I could save the Union without freeing any slaves I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing all the slaves I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing some, and leaving others alone I would also do that.'' I continued in the same letter as follows: ``What I do about slavery and the colored race, I do because I believe it helps to save the Union; and what I forbear I forbear because I do not believe it would help to save the Union. I shall do less whenever I shall believe what I am doing hurts the cause; and I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help the cause.'' All this I said in the utmost sincerety; and I am as true to the whole of it now, as when I first said it. When I afterwards proclaimed emancipation, and employed colored soldiers, I only followed the declaration just quoted from the Greeley letter that ``I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help the cause'' The way these measures were to help the cause, was not to be by magic, or miracles, but by inducing the colored people to come bodily over from the rebel side to ours. On this point, nearly a year ago, in a letter to Mr. Conkling, made public at once, I wrote as follows: ``But negroes, like other people, act upon motives. Why should they do anything for us if we will do nothing for them? If they stake their lives for us they must be prompted by the strongest motive---even the promise of freedom. And the promise, being made, must be kept.'' I am sure you will not, on due reflection, say that the promise being made, must be broken at the first opportunity. I am sure you would not desire me to say, or to leave an inference, that I am ready, whenever convenient, to join in re-enslaving those who shall have served us in consideration of our promise. As matter of morals, could such treachery by any possibility, escape the curses of Heaven, or of any good man? As matter of policy, to announce such a purpose, would ruin the Union cause itself. All recruiting of colored men would instantly cease, and all colored men now in our service, would instantly desert us. And rightfully too. Why should they give their lives for us, with full notice of our purpose to betray them? Drive back to the support of the rebellion the physical force which the colored people now give, and promise us, and neither the present, nor any coming administration, can save the Union. Take from us, and give to the enemy, the hundred and thirty, forty, or fifty thousand colored persons now serving us as soldiers, seamen, and laborers, and we can not longer maintain the contest. The party who could elect a President on a War & Slavery Restoration platform, would, of necessity, lose the colored force; and that force being lost, would be as powerless to save the Union as to do any other impossible thing. It is not a question of sentiment or taste, but one of physical force, which may be measured, and estimated as horsepower, and steam power, are measured and estimated. And by measurement, it is more than we can lose, and live. Nor can we, by discarding it, get a white force in place of it. There is a witness in every white mans bosom that he would rather go to the war having the negro to help him, than to help the enemy against him. It is not the giving of one class for another. It is simply giving a large force to the enemy, for nothing in return. In addition to what I have said, allow me to remind you that no one, having control of the rebel armies, or, in fact, having any influence whatever in the rebellion, has offered, or intimated a willingness to, a restoration of the Union, in any event, or on any condition whatever. Let it be constantly borne in mind that no such offer has been made or intimated. Shall we be weak enough to allow the enemy to distract us with an abstract question which he himself refuses to present as a practical one? In the Conkling letter before mentioned, I said: ``Whenever you shall have conquered all resistance to the Union, if I shall urge you to continue fighting, it will be an apt time then to declare that you will not fight to free negroes.''  I repeat this now. If Jefferson Davis wishes, for himself, or for the benefit of his friends at the North, to know what I would do if he were to offer peace and re-union, saying nothing about slavery, let him try me.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let this appointment be made if the service can be made useful. Aug. 17, 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Ethan A. Hitchcock
August 18, 1864.
If General Hitchcock can effect a special exchange of Thomas D. Armesy, now under conviction as a spy, or something of the sort, and in prison at ---, for Maj. Nathan Goff, made a prisoner of war, and now in prison at Richmond, let it be done. A. LINCOLN.

To Andrew Johnson
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Andrew Johnson War Department, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, D.C., August 18. 1864.
The officer whose duty it would be to execute John S. Young, upon a sentence of death for murder &c, is hereby ordered to suspend such execution until further order from me. A. LINCOLN

Order Confirming Dismissal of William A. Hammond
August 18, 1864
The record, proceedings, findings, and sentence of the Court in the foregoing case are approved; and it is ordered that Brigadier General William A. Hammond, Surgeon General of the United States Army, be dismissed the service, and be forever disqualified from holding any office of honor, profit, or trust under the government of the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. August 18, 1864.

Proclamation Concerning Commercial Regulations
August 18, 1864
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation. Whereas the Act of Congress of the 28th of September, 1850, entitled ``An Act to create additional collection districts in the State of California, and to change the existing districts therein, and to modify the existing collection districts in the United States,'' extends to merchandise warehoused under bond, the privilege of being exported to the British North American Provinces adjoining the United States, in the manner prescribed in the Act of Congress of the 3d of March 1845, which designates certain frontier ports through which merchandise may be exported, and further provides ``that such other ports, situated on the frontiers of the United States adjoining the British North American Provinces as may hereafter be found expedient, may have extended to them the like privileges on the recommendation of the Secretary of the Treasury and Proclamation duly made by the President of the United States, specially designating the ports to which the aforesaid privileges are to be extended:'' Now therefore, I, ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States of America, in accordance with the recommendation of the Secretary of the Treasury, do hereby declare and proclaim, that the port of Newport in the State of Vermont is and shall be entitled to all the privileges in regard to the exportation of merchandise in bond to the British North American Provinces, adjoining the United States, which are extended to the ports enumerated in the 7th. section of the Act of Congress of the 3d. of March 1845, aforesaid, from and after the date of this Proclamation. In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this eighteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty ninth ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

Speech to the One Hundred Sixty-Fourth Ohio Regiment
August 18, 1864
SOLDIERS---You are about to return to your homes and your friends, after having, as I learn, performed in camp a comparatively short term of duty in this great contest. I am greatly obliged to you, and to all who have come forward at the call of their country. I wish it might be more generally and universally understood what the country is now engaged in. We have, as all will agree, a free Government, where every man has a right to be equal with every other man. In this great struggle, this form of Government and every form of human right is endangered if our enemies succeed. There is more involved in this contest than is realized by every one. There is involved in this struggle the question whether your children and my children shall enjoy the privileges we have enjoyed. I say this in order to impress upon you, if you are not already so impressed, that no small matter should divert us from our great purpose. There may be some irregularities in the practical application of our system.  It is fair that each man shall pay taxes in exact proportion to the value of his property; but if we should wait before collecting a tax to adjust the taxes upon each man in exact proportion with every other man, we should never collect any tax at all. There may be mistakes made sometimes; things may be done wrong while the officers of the Government do all they can to prevent mistakes. But I beg of you, as citizens of this great Republic, not to let your minds be carried off from the great work we have before us. This struggle is too large for you to be diverted from it by any small matter. When you return to your homes rise up to the height of a generation of men worthy of a free Government, and we will carry out the great work we have commenced. I return to you my sincere thanks, soldiers, for the honor you have done me this afternoon.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Here is the application of Gen. Owen. If the Sec. of War wishes or consents to revoke the order & give a trial I agree. A. LINCOLN August. 18. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 18, 1864
Will the Secretary of War please see these gentlemen who are agents for recruiting colored soldiers & who seek to have removed some little difficulties in their way. A. LINCOLN August 18. 1864

Interview with Alexander W. Randall and Joseph T. Mills
August 19, 1864
The President was free & animated in conversation. I was astonished at his elasticity of spirits. Says Gov Randall, why cant you Mr P. seek some place of retirement for a few weeks. You would be reinvigorated. Aye said the President, 3 weeks would do me no good---my thoughts my solicitude for this great country follow me where ever I go. I don't think it is personal vanity, or ambition---but I cannot but feel that the weal or woe of this great nation will be decided in the approaching canvas. My own experience has proven to me, that there is no program intended by the democratic party but that will result in the dismemberment of the Union. But Genl McClellan is in favor of crushing out the rebellion, & he will probably be the Chicago candidate. The slightest acquaintance with arithmetic will prove to any man that the rebel armies cannot be destroyed with democratic strategy. It would sacrifice all the white men of the north to do it. There are now between 1 & 200 thousand black men now in the service of the Union. These men will be disbanded, returned to slavery & we will have to fight two nations instead of one. I have tried it. You cannot concilliate the South, when the mastery & control of millions of blacks makes them sure of ultimate success. You cannot concilliate the South, when you place yourself in such a position, that they see they can achieve their independence. The war democrat depends upon conciliation. He must confine himself to that policy entirely. If he fights at all in such a war as this he must economise life & use all the means which God & nature puts in his power. Abandon all the posts now possessed by black men surrender all these advantages to the enemy, & we would be compelled to abandon the war in 3 weeks. We have to hold territory. Where are the war democrats to do it. The field was open to them to have enlisted & put down this rebellion by force of arms, by concilliation, long before the present policy was inaugurated. There have been men who have proposed to me to return to slavery the black warriors of Port Hudson & Olustee to their masters to conciliate the South. I should be damned in time & in eternity for so doing. The world shall know that I will keep my faith to friends & enemies, come what will. My enemies say I am now carrying on this war for the sole purpose of abolition. It is & will be carried on so long as I am President for the sole purpose of restoring the Union. But no human power can subdue this rebellion without using the Emancipation lever as I have done. Freedom has given us the control of 200 000 able bodied men, born & raised on southern soil. It will give us more yet. Just so much it has sub[t]racted from the strength of our enemies, & instead of alienating the south from us, there are evidences of a fraternal feeling growing up between our own & rebel soldiers. My enemies condemn my emancipation policy. Let them prove by the history of this war, that we can restore the Union without it. The President appeared to be not the pleasant joker I had expected to see, but a man of deep convictions & an unutterable yearning for the success of the Union cause. His voice was pleasant---his manner earnest & cordial. As I heard a vindication of his policy from his own lips, I could not but feel that his mind grew in stature like his body, & that I stood in the presence of the great guiding intellect of the age, & that those huge Atlantian shoulders were fit to bear the weight of mightiest monarchies. His transparent honesty, his republican simplicity, his gushing sympathy for those who offered their lives for their country, his utter forgetfulness of self in his concern for his country, could not but inspire me with confidence, that he was Heavens instrument to conduct his people thro this red sea of blood to a Canaan of peace & freedom. Comr. Dole then came in. We were about to retire, but he insisted on our remaining longer. Dismissing the present state of the country, he entertained us with reminiscences of the past---of the discussions between himself & Douglass. He said he was accused of of [ sic ] joking. In his later speeches, the seriousness of the theme prevented him from using anecdotes. Mr. Harris a democratic orator of Ill, once appealed to his audience in this way. If these republicans get into power, the darkies will be allowed to come to the polls & vote. Here comes forward a white man, & you ask him who will you vote for. I will vote for S A Douglass. Next comes up a sleek pampered negro. Well Sambo, who do you vote for. I vote for Massa Lincoln. Now asked the orator, what do you think of that. Some old farmer cried out, I think the darkey showd a damd sight of more sense than the white man. It is such social tete a tetes among his friends that enables Mr Lincoln to endure mental toils & application that would crush any other man. The President now in full flow of spirits, scattered his repartee in all directions. He took his seat on the sofa by my side. Said I Mr President I was in your reception room to day. It was dark. I suppose that clouds & darkness necessarily surround the secrets of state. There in a corner I saw a man quietly reading who possessed a remarkable physiognomy. I was rivetted to the spot. I stood & stared at him He raised his flashing eyes & caught me in the act. I was compelled to speak. Said I, Are you the President. No replied the stranger, I am Frederick Douglass. Now Mr P. are you in favor of miscegenation. That's a democratic mode of producing good Union men, & I dont propose to infringe on the patent. We parted from his Excellency, with firmer purpose to sustain the government, at whose head there stands a man who combines in his person all that is valuable in progress in conservatism---all that is hopeful in progress .

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major Gen. Butler Executive Mansion Washington D.C. Bermuda, Hundred Va. Aug. 20. 1864
Please allow Judge Snead to go to his family on Eastern Shore, or give me some good reason why not. A LINCOLN

To John F. Miller
Commanding Officer at Executive Mansion, Nashville, Tennessee. Washington, August 20, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of Patrick Jones, Co. F. twelfth Tennessee Cavalry until further orders and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Maj. Eckert Please send above telegram. JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv. Sec.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Aug. 20. 1864.
Col. Whistler, who presents this, says he has an application on file for his son---Garland N. Whistler---to go to West-Point, and that there is now a vacancy. If there is a vacancy, and if his vouchers are the best now on file, let him have it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
August 20, 1864
Let Gen. Burbridge be invited as requested, if in his own judgment he can properly leave his command at time, and for such length of time. A. LINCOLN August 20. 1864

Order for Testing Wrought Iron Cannon
Executive Mansion, August 21 [20?], 1864
Mr. Ames having constructed certain wrought-iron cannon of 7-inch calibre, which he desires to have inspected and tested with a view to determine their fitness for the United States service, it is Ordered First, that a board of officers, to consist of Major General Gilmore as president of the board, a competent ordnance officer to be designated by the Secretary of War, and a competent officer to be designated by the Secretary of the Navy, shall be organized and meet at Bridgeport, Connecticut, on the first day of September next, with a view of inspecting and testing the aforesaid cannon and determining the capacity and fitness for the United States service, with such tests and trials as they shall deem proper, and make report to the President of their opinion in respect to said cannon, and their value and fitness for the service. Second, that the ordnance bureaus of the War and Navy Departments shall provide suitable shot, shells, and ammunition for making the aforesaid tests, and provide all the necessaries for a careful and fair test of the aforesaid cannon. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Norton P. Chipman
United States Military Telegraph, Col. Chipman War Department, Harper's Ferry, Va. August 21. 3 P.M. 1864
What news now? A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out pardon in this case. Aug. 22. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning James H. Jackson

On the same West Point case which I handed the Secretary yesterday A LINCOLN Aug. 22. 1864

To Montgomery C. Meigs
August 22, 1864
Let Capt. Anderson named within be reinstated if that be legally possible & if not possible, let him be newly appointed an A.Q.M. & report to Gen. Ewing. A. LINCOLN Aug. 22, 1864.

Speech to One Hundred Sixty-sixth Ohio Regiment
August 22, 1864
I suppose you are going home to see your families and friends. For the service you have done in this great struggle in which we are engaged I present you sincere thanks for myself and the country. I almost always feel inclined, when I happen to say anything to soldiers, to impress upon them in a few brief remarks the importance of success in this contest. It is not merely for to-day, but for all time to come that we should perpetuate for our children's children this great and free government, which we have enjoyed all our lives. I beg you to remember this, not merely for my sake, but for yours. I happen temporarily to occupy this big White House. I am a living witness that any one of your children may look to come here as my father's child has. It is in order that each of you may have through this free government which we have enjoyed, an open field and a fair chance for your industry, enterprise and intelligence; that you may all have equal privileges in the race of life, with all its desirable human aspirations. It is for this the struggle should be maintained, that we may not lose our birthright---not only for one, but for two or three years. The nation is worth fighting for, to secure such an inestimable jewel.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Aug. 22, 1864.
I very much wish to oblige Henry Ward Beecher, by releasing Howard; but I wish you to be satisfied when it is done. What say you?  Yours truly A. LINCOLN Let Howard, imprisoned in regard to the bogus proclamation, be discharged. A. LINCOLN August 23. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec of War please see & hear the bearer Lt. Col. McElroy whose letter from Gen. Grant I sent over to-day. A. LINCOLN Aug. 22. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec of War, please see & hear my particular friend Capt Wickizer A LINCOLN Aug. 22 1864

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Sec. of Navy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Aug. 22, 1864.
If there is a vacancy in the Naval School, give it to John Henry Roaman. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning His Probable Failure of Re-election
Executive Mansion Washington, Aug. 23, 1864.
This morning, as for some days past, it seems exceedingly probable that this Administration will not be re-elected. Then it will be my duty to so co-operate with the President elect, as to save the Union between the election and the inauguration; as he will have secured his election on such ground that he can not possibly save it afterwards. A. LINCOLN

Order for Sale of Land in Winnebago Indian Reservation
August 23, 1864
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. For the sale of Valuable lands in the late Winnebago Indian Reservation, in Minnesota. In pursuance of law, I ABRAHAM LINCOLN, President of the United States of America, do hereby declare and make known that public sales will be held in the undermentioned Land Office, in the State of Minnesota, at the period herinafter designated, to wit: At the Land Office at ST. PETER, commencing on Monday the Fifth day of December next, for the disposal of the Public lands comprised in the late reserve for the Winnebago Indians, above mentioned, and situated within the following parts of townships, which will be sold at the appraised value of the land and the improvements thereon, viz: North of the base line, and West of the fifth principal Meridian . In Township one hundred and six, In Township one hundred and six, Range twenty four, - - - - - - 15,384.96. acres. In Township one hundred and seven, Range twenty four. - - - - - - 5,405.44. `` In Township one hundred and six, Range twenty five. - - - - - - 15,254.34. `` In Township one hundred and seven, Range twenty five. - - - - - - 17,649.71. `` In Township one hundred and eight, Range twenty five. - - - - - - 277.81. `` A Schedule particularly describing the individual tracts with the appraised value per acre respectively, will be open for inspection at the District Land Offices in Minnesota. The offering of the above lands will be commenced on the day appointed, and will proceed in the order designated in the above mentioned Schedule, and consecutively by townships as herein advertised, until the whole shall have been offered and the sale thus closed; but the Sale shall not be kept open longer than two weeks, and no private entry of any of the lands will be admitted until after the expiration of the two weeks. Given under my hand, at the City of Washington this twenty third day of August, Anno Domini, One thousand, eight hundred and sixty four. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: Jos. J WILSON Acting Commissioner of the General Land Office.

To Mrs. Mary M. Baldwin
War Department Mrs. Mary McCook Baldwin Washington City, Nashville, Tenn. August 24 1864
This is an order to the officer having in charge to execute the death sentence upon John S. Young, to suspend the same until further order. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
August 24, 1864
Submitted to Judge Advocate General for report. A. LINCOLN Aug. 24, 1864 Disability removed & forfeiture of pay and allowances rescinded Jan. 14, 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph J. Lewis

Commissioner of Internal Revenue Please see and hear Mr. Janney of Ohio A LINCOLN August 24, 1864.

To Henry J. Raymond
Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, August 24. 1864.
You will proceed forthwith and obtain, if possible, a conference for peace with Hon. Jefferson Davis, or any person by him authorized for that purpose. You will address him in entirely respectful terms, at all events, and in any that may be indispensable to secure the conference. At said conference you will propose, on behalf this government, that upon the restoration of the Union and the national authority, the war shall cease at once, all remaining questions to be left for adjustment by peaceful modes. If this be accepted hostilities to cease at once. If it be not accepted, you will then request to be informed what terms, if any embracing the restoration of the Union, would be accepted. If any such be presented you in answer, you will forthwith report the same to this government, and await further instructions. If the presentation of any terms embracing the restoration of the Union be declined, you will then request to be informed what terms of peace would, be accepted; and on receiving any answer, report the same to this government, and await further instructions.

To Joseph Holt

Will the Judge Advocate General please procure the facts of this case & report to me? A. LINCOLN August 25, 1864.

Memorandum Concerning Thomas J. Turner and Rufus K. Williams
Executive Mansion, Washington, Aug. 25, 1864.
I wish to remember Hon. Thomas J. Turner  & Judge Williams of Ky. as Cotton agents.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Respectfully submitted to the Secretary of War, asking particular attention A. LINCOLN Aug. 25, 1864

To Samuel Cony
United States Military Telegraph, His Excellency Gov. Cony War Department. Augusta, Maine August 26. 1864
Your despatch received, and especially referred to Secretary of the Navy. A LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Johnson Executive Mansion, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, August 26, 1864.
Thanks to Gen. Gillam for making the news, and also to you for sending it. Does Joe Heiskell's ``walking to meet us'' mean any more than that ``Joe'' was scared & wanted to save his skin? A. LINCOLN

Order for Harvey M. Colby
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 26, 1864.
Upon condition that Harvey M. Colby enters the Military services for a term of three years and faithfully serves it out or until otherwise honorably discharged, he is fully pardoned for any desertion heretofore committed. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Robert M. Taylor

Robert M. Taylor of the 12th U.S. Infantry, is hereby discharged from the service. A. LINCOLN Aug. 27, 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Aug. 27, 1864.
If Gen. Sigel has asked for an Inquiry, let him have it, if there is not some insurmountable, or at least, very serious obstacle. He is fairly entitled to this consideration. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher

I wish this paper called to my attention, when, if ever, the vacancy mentioned occurs. A. LINCOLN Aug. 27. 1864

To Ulysses S. Grant
War Department Washington City, Aug 28 1864
Lt Gen Grant There appears to be doubt whether the report of Fort Morgan being in our possession is in the Richmond papers. Did you see the Richmond paper containing the statement? A. LINCOLN

To Lewis Wallace
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Wallace War Department, Baltimore, Md Washington, D.C., August 28 1864.
The, punishment, of the four men under sentence of death to be executed to-morrow at Baltimore, is commuted in each case to confinement in the Penitentiary at hard labor during the war. You will act accordingly. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Executive Mansion My dear Sir Aug. 28, 1864
Please find some way to relieve me from the embarrassment of this case. Let me have a return of the papers, with your answer by 9 o'clock,A.M. to-morrow, at which time I am engaged to see the gentlemen who now present the case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To James B. Fry

I will thank the Provost Marshal-General, to give a full and fair hearing to Hon. P. C. Brinck, the bearer. A. LINCOLN Aug. 29. 1864

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion Washington, Lieut. General Grant August 29. 1864.
Col. T. Worthington,of Ohio is here wishing to visit, you. I will send him if you say so; otherwise not. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin H. Brewster
Hon. B. H. Brewster Executive Mansion Astor-House New-York Washington, D.C. Aug. 30. 1864.
Your letter of yesterday received.Thank you for it. Please have no fears. A. LINCOLN

Order for Discharge of Louis Kinney
August 30, 1864
Let this man take the oath of December 8, and be discharged. He is said to be barely past eighteen years of age, and is at Point Lookout, and sick. A. LINCOLN August 30, 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

On the assurance of Senator Harlan that he knows the writer of the within to be a reliable man, the discharge requested is ordered. August 30. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, August 30. 1864.
Please let Forney's man off this morning. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War, please see and hear this lady with a letter from Senator Ten-Eyck. A. LINCOLN Aug. 30. 1864

To Charles M. Alexander
August 31, 1864
If this mans Colonel will say in writing on this paper that he is willing to receive this man back to his regiment I will send him Aug. 31. 1864 A. LINCOLN On the first day of October 1864 let this man be sent to his regiment & upon his then faithfully serving out his term, he is pardoned for the past. A. LINCOLN Sep. 3. 1864.

To Joseph K. Barnes
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 31. 1864.
Surgeon General please have an examination made of private Joseph Laland Co. H. 2nd. N.Y. Heavy Artillery, now at Mount Pleasant Hospital, with reference to a discharge A. LINCOLN

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Mrs. A. LINCOLN. War Department, Manchester, Vermont. Washington, D.C., August 31. 1864.
All reasonably well. Bob not here yet. How is dear Tad? A. LINCOLN

To Edwin D. Morgan, Thurlow Weed, and Henry J. Raymond
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 31. 1864.
Mr. Louis A. Welton came from the rebel lines into ours with a written contract to furnish large supplies to the rebels, was arrested with the contract in his possession, and has been sentenced to imprisonment for it. He, and his friends complain of this, on no substantial evidence whatever, but simply because his word, only given after his arrest, that he only took the contract as a means of escaping from the rebel lines, was not accepted as a full defence. He perceives that if this had been true he would have destroyed the contract so soon as it had served his purpose in getting him across the lines; but not having done this, and being caught with the paper on him, he tells this other absurd story that he kept the paper in the belief that our government would join him in taking the profit of fulfiling the contract. This is my understanding of the case; and I can not conceive of a case of a man found in possession of a contract to furnish rebel supplies, who can not escape, if this be held a sufficient ground of escape. It is simply for the accused to escape by telling a very absurd and improbable story. Now, if Senator Morgan, and Mr. Weed, and Mr. Raymond, will not argue with me that I ought to discharge this man, but will, in writing on this sheet, simply request me to do it, I will do it solely in deference to their wishes. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Transportation of Cotton
Executive Mansion, Washington, August 31, 1864.
Any person or persons engaged in bringing out Cotton, in strict conformity with authority given by W. P. Fessenden, Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, must not be hindered by the War, Navy, or any other Department of the Government, or any person engaged under any of said Departments. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Portion of an Order Concerning Cotton Shipments
[c. August 31, 1864?]
Permits will be free from seizure detention or forfeiture, and be allowed free and unmolested passage as Permitted by agents of the Treasury Department in accordance with said amended Regulation. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Speech to One Hundred Forty-eighth Ohio Regiment
August 31, 1864
SOLDIERS OF THE 148TH OHIO:---I am most happy to meet you on this occasion. I understand that it has been your honorable privilege to stand, for a brief period, in the defense of your country, and that now you are on your way to your homes. I congratulate you, and those who are waiting to bid you welcome home from the war; and permit me, in the name of the people, to thank you for the part you have taken in this struggle for the life of the nation. You are soldiers of the Republic, everywhere honored and respected. Whenever I appear before a body of soldiers, I feel tempted to talk to them of the nature of the struggle in which we are engaged. I look upon it as an attempt on the one hand to overwhelm and destroy the national existence, while, on our part, we are striving to maintain the government and institutions of our fathers, to enjoy them ourselves, and transmit them to our children and our children's children forever. To do this the constitutional administration of our government must be sustained, and I beg of you not to allow your minds or your hearts to be diverted from the support of all necessary measures for that purpose, by any miserable picayune arguments addressed to your pockets, or inflammatory appeals made to your passions or your prejudices. It is vain and foolish to arraign this man or that for the part he has taken, or has not taken, and to hold the government responsible for his acts. In no administration can there be perfect equality of action and uniform satisfaction rendered by all. But this government must be preserved in spite of the acts of any man or set of men. It is worthy your every effort. Nowhere in the world is presented a government of so much liberty and equality. To the humblest and poorest amongst us are held out the highest privileges and positions. The present moment finds me at the White House, yet there is as good a chance for your children as there was for my father's. Again I admonish you not to be turned from your stern purpose of defending your beloved country and its free institutions by any arguments urged by ambitious and designing men, but stand fast to the Union and the old flag. Soldiers, I bid you God-speed to your homes.

To Alfred B. Justice
Executive Mansion, My dear Sir, Washington, September, 1864.
I have received at the hands of Judge Kelley a very handsome and ingenious pocket knife, for which I am indebted to the liberality of yourself and others. I shall value it no less, as a fine specimen of American mechanism, than as a testimonial of the kind approval of the donors. I am yours very truly ABRAHAM LINCOLN Mr. A. B. Justice, Philadelphia, Pa.

To Montgomery Blair
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. M. Blair War Department, Portsmouth, N.H. Washington, D.C., Sept. 1 1864.
Please return here at your earliest convenience. A. LINCOLN

To Samuel R. Curtis
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Curtis September 1, 1864.
The bearer of this, Mr. George K. Otis, General Superintendent of the Overland Mail Line, has called on me seeking protection for the line against the indians. I can think of nothing better than to ask you to have a full conferrence with him on the subject, and to do the very best you can for this important interest, consistently with the other interests in your charge. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

Order to Henry S. Huidekoper
Executive Mansion Washington D.C. Sept 1. 1864.
It is represented to me that there are at Rock Island, Ills. as rebel prisoners of war, many persons of Northern and foreign birth, who are unwilling to be exchanged and sent South, but who wish to take the oath of allegiance and enter the military service of the Union. Col. Huidekoper on behalf of the people of some parts of Pennsylvania wishes to pay the bounties the government would have to pay to proper persons of this class, have them enter the service of the United States, and be credited to the localities furnishing the bounty money. He will, therefore proceed to Rock Island, ascertain the names of such persons (not including any who have attractions Southward) and telegraph them to the Provost Marshal General here, whereupon directions will be given to discharge the persons named upon their taking the oath of allegiance; and then upon the official evidence being furnished that they shall have been duly received and mustered into the service of the United States, their number will be credited as may be directed by Col. Huidekoper. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Pass

Allow this boy to pass to City-Point & return. A. LINCOLN Sep. 1, 1864

To Lewis Wallace

Will Gen. Wallace please allow these two ladies to visit their brother, Walter Lenon in Prison at Fort-McHenry? Sep. 1. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

What should I do in this case? I see no report of J.A.G. Sept. 2. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery Blair
Hon. M. Blair Executive Mansion Portsmouth, N.H. Washington DC. Sep. 3. 1864
Please come at once. Dont delay. Answer when you will be here. A. LINCOLN

Order for Celebration of Victories at Atlanta, Georgia, and Mobile, Alabama
Executive Mansion, Washington City, Ordered, September 3d, 1864.
First.---That on Monday, the 5th. day of September, commencing at the hour of twelve o'clock noon, there shall be given a salute of one hundred guns at the Arsenal and Navy Yard at Washington, and on Tuesday September 6th., or on the day after the receipt of this order, at each Arsenal and Navy Yard in the United States, for the recent brilliant achievements of the fleet and land forces of the United States in the harbor of Mobile and in the reduction of Fort Powell, Fort Gaines, and Fort Morgan. The Secretary of War and Secretary of the Navy will issue the necessary directions in their respective Departments for the execution of this order. Second.---That on Wednesday, the 7th. day of September, commencing at the hour of twelve o'clock noon, there shall be fired a salute of one hundred guns at the Arsenal at Washington, and at New York, Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Pittsburg, Newport, Ky. and St. Louis, and at New Orleans, Mobile, Pensacola, Hilton Head & Newberne, the day after the receipt of this order, for the brilliant achievements of the army under command of Major General Sherman, in the State of Georgia, and the capture of Atlanta. The Secretary of War will issue directions for the execution of this order. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order of Thanks to David G. Farragut and Others
Executive Mansion, September 3d. 1864.
The national thanks are tendered by the President to Admiral Farragut and Major General Canby for the skill and harmony with which the recent operations in Mobile Harbor, and against Fort Powell, Fort Gaines, and Fort Morgan, were planned and carried into execution. Also, to Admiral Farragut and Major General Granger, under whose immediate command they were conducted, and to the gallant commanders on sea and land, and to the sailors and soldiers engaged in the operations, for their energy and courage, which, under the blessing of Providence, have been crowned with brilliant success, and have won for them the applause and thanks of the nation. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order of Thanks to William T. Sherman and Others
Executive Mansion, September 3d, 1864.
The national thanks are herewith tendered by the President to Major General William T. Sherman, and the gallant officers and soldiers of his command before Atlanta, for the distinguished ability, courage, and perseverance displayed in the campaign in Georgia, which, under Divine favor, has resulted in the capture of the City of Atlanta. The marches, battles, sieges, and other military operations that have signalized this campaign must render it famous in the annals of war, and have entitled those who have participated therein to the applause and thanks of the nation. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Proclamation of Thanksgiving and Prayer
Executive Mansion, Washington City September 3d. 1864
The signal success that Divine Providence has recently vouchsafed to the operations of the United States fleet and army in the harbor of Mobile and the reduction of Fort-Powell, Fort-Gaines, and Fort-Morgan, and the glorious achievements of the Army under Major General Sherman in the State of Georgia, resulting in the capture of the City of Atlanta, call for devout acknowledgement to the Supreme Being in whose hands are the destinies of nations. It is therefore requested that on next Sunday, in all places of public worship in the United-States, thanksgiving be offered to Him for His mercy in preserving our national existence against the insurgent rebels who so long have been waging a cruel war against the Government of the United-States, for its overthrow; and also that prayer be made for the Divine protection to our brave soldiers and their leaders in the field, who have so ofen and so gallantly perilled their lives in battling with the enemy; and for blessing and comfort from the Father of Mercies to the sick, wounded, and prisoners, and to the orphans and widows of those who have fallen in the service of their country, and that he will continue to uphold the Government of the United-States against all the efforts of public enemies and secret foes. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Sec. of War, please see this boy a moment, who says you know him. Sep. 3. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Secretary of the Navy Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Washington, D.C Sep. 3. 1864
It is absolutely necessary that the Sec. of War shall be furnished with the number of Navy enlistments, at each locality, under the present law, by three o'clock, P.M. to-day. Please furnish them. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Gen. Burbridge Executive Mansion, Lexington, Ky. Washington, Sep. 4, 1864.
Judge Swayne of the U.S. Supreme Court appeals to me in favor of a man by the name of A. Harris, said to be in custody at Louisville on charge of belonging to the secret order so much spoken of. Harris avers that he does not belong to it; and the Judge declares he believes him. Please have the case examined. A. LINCOLN

To Eliza P. Gurney
Eliza P. Gurney. Executive Mansion, My esteemed friend. Washington, September 4. 1864.
I have not forgotten---probably never shall forget---the very impressive occasion when yourself and friends visited me on a Sabbath forenoon two years ago. Nor has your kind letter, written nearly a year later, ever been forgotten. In all, it has been your purpose to strengthen my reliance on God. I am much indebted to the good christian people of the country for their constant prayers and consolations; and to no one of them, more than to yourself. The purposes of the Almighty are perfect, and must prevail, though we erring mortals may fail to accurately perceive them in advance. We hoped for a happy termination of this terrible war long before this; but God knows best, and has ruled otherwise. We shall yet acknowledge His wisdom and our own error therein. Meanwhile we must work earnestly in the best light He gives us, trusting that so working still conduces to the great ends He ordains. Surely He intends some great good to follow this mighty convulsion, which no mortal could make, and no mortal could stay. Your people---the Friends---have had, and are having, a very great trial. On principle, and faith, opposed to both war and oppression, they can only practically oppose oppression by war. In this hard dilemma, some have chosen one horn and some the other. For those appealing to me on conscientious grounds, I have done, and shall do, the best I could and can, in my own conscience, under my oath to the law. That you believe this I doubt not; and believing it, I shall still receive, for our country and myself, your earnest prayers to our Father in Heaven. Your sincere friend A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please report to me on the evidence of this case A. LINCOLN Sept. 5, 1864

Reply to Blas Bruzual
September 5, 1864
MR. BRUZUAL: It gives me pleasure to receive and welcome to the United States a representative of Venezuela. Venezuela, almost centrally situated among American republics, holds a position commercially advantageous and politically important. Endowed by nature with capacity for rich and varied production, it extends over a broad territory, embracing vast resources yet to be developed. Guided by the principles of republican government and advancing civilization, it adopts institutions which have contributed largely to the growth of the countries of this continent in the past, and which form the basis of high and cherished aspirations for their future. The Government and people of the United States cannot but feel a deep interest and earnest sympathy in the peace, the prosperity, and the progress of Venezuela. Thanking you for the friendly sentiments towards the United States which you have expressed, I pray you to accept the assurance of my best wishes that your sojourn in our country may be agreeable to yourself and satisfactory to the Government which you represent.

To Edwin M. Stanton
[c. September 5, 1864]
It is said Col. Powell now commands a brigade, and these recommendations being so good and ample, give him a brevet appointment, if a full commission is impracticable. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 5, 1864
I am not sure that there is a vacancy such as supposed; but if there is, I desire that fair and full consideration be given to this application of Dr. Cox. A. LINCOLN Sep. 5. 1864.

To John B. Steele
September 5, 1864
If Hon. John B. Steele will, in writing, on this sheet, request me to discharge this boy I will do it. A. LINCOLN Sep. 5, 1864 Let this boy be discharged. A. LINCOLN Sep. 12, 1864

To Ethan A. Hitchcock

Will Gen. Hitchcock please see private H. C. Higginson, who comes from our prisoners at Camp Sumpter Ga A. LINCOLN Sep. 6. 1864

To John J. Meier
Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Sept 6, 1864.
You write me under date of the 2d inst. that your boy who is at school at Dusseldorf, has for the last eighteen months been ``saving up his pennies,'' and has sent you the proceeds, amounting to five dollars which you enclose, to ``help the sick and wounded of our brave boys fighting for the glorious cause of truth and freedom'' as he is himself ``not yet old enough to fight.'' The amount is duly received and shall be devoted to the object indicated. I thank your boy, not only for myself, but also for all the children of the nation, who are even more interested than those of us, of maturer age, that this war shall be successful, and the Union be maintained and perpetuated. Yours truly,

To Ulysses S. Grant
[c. September 7, 1864?]
I am told . . . that the two first paragraphs of the within order work badly in the Army. Will Lieut. General Grant please give me his opinion on this [re]quest.

To Ethan A. Hitchcock

Will Gen. Hitchcock please see & hear this good lady Mrs. Ten Eyck? A. LINCOLN Sep. 7. 1864

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Johnson. Executive Mansion Nashville, Tenn. Washington, Sep. 7. 1864
This is an order to whatever officer may have the matter in charge, that the execution of Thomas R. Bridges, be respited to Friday, September 30, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Johnson. War Department, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, D.C., Sep. 7. 1864.
This is an order to whatever officer may have the matter in charge that the execution of Jesse T. Broadway and Jordan Moseley, is respited to Friday September 30th. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Order for Discharge of Charles D. Stewart
September 7, 1864
Let this man---Chas D. Stewart---be discharged from the military custody of the United States, and left to the control of his family & the laws for the insane. A. LINCOLN. Sept 7th 1864

Reply to Loyal Colored People of Baltimore upon Presentation of a Bible
September 7, 1864
This occasion would seem fitting for a lengthy response to the address which you have just made. I would make one, if prepared; but I am not. I would promise to respond in writing, had not experience taught me that business will not allow me to do so. I can only now say, as I have often before said, it has always been a sentiment with me that all mankind should be free. So far as able, within my sphere, I have always acted as I believed to be right and just; and I have done all I could for the good of mankind generally. In letters and documents sent from this office I have expressed myself better than I now can. In regard to this Great Book, I have but to say, it is the best gift God has given to man. All the good the Saviour gave to the world was communicated through this book. But for it we could not know right from wrong. All things most desirable for man's welfare, here and hereafter, are to be found portrayed in it. To you I return my most sincere thanks for the very elegant copy of the great Book of God which you present.

To Simeon Draper
Hon. Simeon Draper Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Sept. 8, 1864.
Allow me to introduce Gov. W. A. Newell of New-Jersey. You know him by reputation. He and I were in congress together sixteen years ago. He is a true friend of the Union, and every way a reliable gentleman. Please hear him whenever he calls. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Will the Judge Advocate General procure the record and make a report on this case. A. LINCOLN Sep. 8. 1864

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Mrs. A. Lincoln Executive Mansion, Washington, Manchester, Vermont September 8. 1864.
All well, including Tad's pony and the goats. Mrs. Col. Dimmick died night before last. Bob left Sunday afternoon. Said he did not know whether he should see you. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. Adams

Allow Mrs. Adams, and children to pass our lines at or near Hilton Head S.C. and go North to her daughter, Mrs. Col. Perry. Sep. 8. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To William Pickering
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Pickering War Department, Olympia, W.T. Washington, D.C., Sept. 8. 1864.
Your patriotic despatch of yesterday received, and will be published. A. LINCOLN

To John P. Slough
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gen. Slough, War Department, Washington, D.C., Alexandria, Va Sept. 8 1864.
Edward Conley's, execution is respited to one week from to-morrow. Act accordingly. A. LINCOLN

To James Y. Smith
Gov. Smith Executive Mansion Washington, D.C. Providence, R.I. Sep. 8. 1864
Yours of yesterday about Edward Conley, received. Dont remember receiving anything else from you on the subject. Please telegraph me at once the grounds on which you request his punishment to be commuted. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, Sep. 8. 1864.
Gen. Meade personally requests that William Gerhard, of Penn. be appointed to West-Point; and I promise to do it so soon as I can consistently with previous promises. Please do not let me forget this. He was born Sep. 9. 1847. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine & report upon this case. Sep. 9. 1864. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Judge Advocate General Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Sep. 9. 1864.
A lady is here saying her husband served a full nine months term, and afterwards was convicted of a former desertion and sent to the Tortugas. His name is Joshua Francis Noble. Please ascertain and report to me on his case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN Pardoned & restored to duty A. LINCOLN Jan. 23. 1865.

To Isaac M. Schermerhorn
Isaac M. Schemerhorn War Department Buffalo. N.Y. Washington City, Sep. 9 1864
Yours of to-day received. I do not think the letter you mention has reached me. I have no recollection of it. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Sep. 9. 1864.
I am appealed to by the proprietors of papers here because they have to get telegraphed back to them from New-York, matter which goes from the War Department. Might not this be avoided without harm or inconvenience to any? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine and report upon this case. A. LINCOLN Sep. 10. 1864

Order of Thanks to One Hundred Day Troops from Ohio
Executive Mansion, Washington City, September 10th, 1864.
The term of one hundred days for which the National Guard of Ohio volunteered having expired, the President directs an official acknowledgment to be made of their patriotic and valuable services during the recent campaigns. The term of service of their enlistment was short, but distinguished by memorable events. In the Valley of the Shenandoah, on the Peninsula, in the operations on the James River, around Petersburg and Richmond, in the battle of Monocacy and in the entrenchments of Washington, and in other important service, the National Guard of Ohio performed with alacrity the duty of patriotic volunteers, for which they are entitled to and are hereby tendered, through the Governor of their State, the National thanks. The Secretary of War is directed to transmit a copy of this order to the Governor of Ohio, and to cause a certificate of their honorable service to be delivered to the officers and soldiers of the Ohio National Guard who recently served in the military force of the United States as volunteers for one hundred days. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Mrs. A. Lincoln. War Department, New-York. Washington, D.C., Sep. 11 1864.
All well. What day will you be home? Four days ago sent despatch to Manchester Vt. for you. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement
September 12, 1864
I understand that there are letters on file in the War Department, of which the within are copies; & also that the office sought is located in Mr. Hooper's District. If these be facts, let the appointment be made, unless there be a reason to the contrary unknown to me. A. LINCOLN Sep. 12. 1864.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lieut. Genl. Grant Sep. 12. 1864.
Sheridan and Early are facing each other at a dead lock. Could we not pick up a regiment here and there, to the number of say ten thousand men, and quietly, but suddenly concentrate them at Sheridan's camp and enable him to make a strike? This is but a suggestion. Yours truly A LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Ward H. Lamon and the Antietam Episode
[c. September 12, 1864]
The President has known me intimately for nearly twenty years, and has often heard me sing little ditties. The battle of Antietam was fought on the 17th. day of September 1862. On the first day of October, just two weeks after the battle, the President, with some others including myself, started from Washington to visit the Army, reaching Harper's Ferry at noon of that day. In a short while Gen. McClellan came from his Head Quarters near the battle ground, joined the President, and with him, reviewed, the troops at Bolivar Heights that afternoon; and, at night, returned to his Head Quarters, leaving the President at Harper's Ferry. On the morning of the second, the President, with Gen. Sumner, reviewed the troops respectively at Loudon Heights and Maryland Heights, and at about noon, started to Gen. McClellan's Head Quarters, reaching there only in time to see very little before night. On the morning of the third all started on a review of the three corps, and the Cavalry, in the vicinity of the Antietam battle ground. After getting through with Gen. Burnsides Corps, at the suggestion of Gen. McClellan, he and the President left their horses to be led, and went into an ambulance or ambulances to go to Gen. Fitz John Porter's Corps, which was two or three miles distant. I am not sure whether the President and Gen. Mc. were in the same ambulance, or in different ones; but myself and some others were in the same with the President. On the way, and on no part of the battleground, and on what suggestion I do not remember, the President asked me to sing the little sad song, that follows, which he had often heard me sing, and had always seemed to like very much. I sang them. After it was over, some one of the party, (I do not think it was the President) asked me to sing something else; and I sang two or three little comic things of which Picayune Butler was one. Porter's Corps was reached and reviewed; then the battle ground was passed over, and the most noted parts examined; then, in succession the Cavalry, and Franklin's Corps were reviewed, and the President and party returned to Gen. McClellan's Head Quarters at the end of a very hard, hot, and dusty day's work. Next day, the 4th. the President and Gen. Mc. visited such of the wounded as still remained in the vicinity, including the now lamented Gen. Richardson; then proceed[ed] to and examined the South-Mountain battle ground, at which point they parted, Gen. McClellan returning to his Camp, and the President returning to Washington, seeing, on the way, Gen Hartsuff, who lay wounded at Frederick Town. This is the whole story of the singing and it's surroundings. Neither Gen. McClellan or any one else made any objection to the singing; the place was not on the battle field, the time was sixteen days after the battle, no dead body was seen during the whole time the president was absent from Washington, nor even a grave that had not been rained on since it was made. WARD H LAMON

To Napoleon III
September 12, 1864
Abraham Lincoln President of the United States of America To His Imperial Majesty Napoleon III Emperor of the French. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 28th. of July last, announcing that Madame the Princess Marie Clotilde Napoleon, Your Majesty's well beloved Cousin had been happily delivered of a second son, upon whom the names of Napoleon Louis Joseph Jerome, had been bestowed I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event, and offer to Your Majesty my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. And so I commend Your Majesty and Your Majesty's Royal Family to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 12th September, 1864. By the President WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

