To Isaac M. Schermerhorn
Isaac M. Schemerhorn Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Sept. 12. 1864.
Yours inviting me to attend a Union Mass Meeting at Buffalo is received. Much is being said about peace; and no man desires peace more ardently than I. Still I am yet unprepared to give up the Union for a peace which, so achieved, could not be of much duration. The preservation of our Union was not the sole avowed object for which the war was commenced. It was commenced for precisely the reverse object--- to destroy our Union . The insurgents commenced it by firing upon the Star of the West, and on Fort Sumpter, and by other similar acts. It is true, however, that the administration accepted the war thus commenced, for the sole avowed object of preserving our Union; and it is not true that it has since been, or will be, prossecuted by this administration, for any other object. In declaring this, I only declare what I can know, and do know to be true, and what no other man can know to be false. In taking the various steps which have led to my present position in relation to the war, the public interest and my private interest, have been perfectly paralel, because in no other way could I serve myself so well, as by truly serving the Union. The whole field has been open to me, where to choose. No place-hunting necessity has been upon me urging me to seek a position of antagonism to some other man, irrespective of whether such position might be favorable or unfavorable to the Union. Of course I may err in judgment, but my present position in reference to the rebellion is the result of my best judgment, and according to that best judgment, it is the only position upon which any Executive can or could save the Union. Any substantial departure from it insures the success of the rebellion. An armistice---a cessation of hostilities---is the end of the struggle, and the insurgents would be in peaceable possession of all that has been struggled for. Any different policy in regard to the colored man, deprives us of his help, and this is more than we can bear. We can not spare the hundred and forty or fifty thousand now serving us as soldiers, seamen, and laborers. This is not a question of sentiment or taste, but one of physical force which may be measured and estimated as horse-power and Steam-power are measured and estimated. Keep it and you can save the Union. Throw it away, and the Union goes with it. Nor is it possible for any Administration to retain the service of these people with the express or implied understanding that upon the first convenient occasion, they are to be re-inslaved. It can not be; and it ought not to be.

To Isaac M. Schermerhorn
Private . Executive Mansion, Isaac M. Schemerhorn, Pres't &c. Washington, Buffalo, N.Y. September 12th. 1864.
My dear Sir: Your letter, mentioned in your two telegrams, has not reached me; so that I am without knowledge of its particulars. I beg you to pardon me for having concluded that it is not best for me now to write a general letter to a political meeting. First, I believe it is not customary for one holding the office, and being a candidate for re-election, to do so; and secondly, a public letter must be written with some care, and at some expense of time, so that having begun with your meeting, I could not well refuse others, and yet could not get through with all having equal claims. Please tender to those you represent my sincere thanks for the invitation, and my appeal to their indulgence for having declined their request. Yours very truly. A. LINCOLN.

To James G. Blaine
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. J. G. Blaine War Department, Augusta, Maine Washington, D.C., Sep. 13. 1864.
On behalf of the Union, thanks to Maine. Thanks to you personally for sending the news. A LINCOLN Send same to L. B. Smith and M. A. Blanchard, Portland, Maine. A.L.

To Benjamin F. Butler
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Butler War Department, Bermuda Hundred, Va. Washington, D.C., Sept. 13. 1864.
The Ames guns I am under promise to pay, or rather to advise paying, a very high price for, provided they bear the test, and they are not yet tested, though I believe in process of being tested. I could not be justified to pay the extraordinary price without the testing. I shall be happy to let you have some of them so soon as I can. How comes on your canal.  A LINCOLN

Memorandum of Pre-election Poll
Executive Mansion, Washington, [c. September 13], 1864.
On train from Pittsburg to Harrisburg Sep. 13. 1864. Lincoln		McClellan	Fremont 172.	66.	7.

Pass

Let the Old Soldier pass according to his R.R. passes without hindrance. A. LINCOLN. Sept. 13, 1864.

Pass for John Ehler
September 13, 1864
Let this boy, John Ehler, have transportation, food, and whatever is necessary, to get him to his Uncle Dr. Ehler, at Cavalry Corps Hospital at City-Point, Va. A. LINCOLN Sep. 13. 1864.

Response to Serenade
September 13, 1864
Mr. Lincoln made a brief response, to the effect that he was not prepared to acknowledge the honor done him in a set speech. We had heard the right sort of speeches from Vermont and Maine lately, and previously from Mobile and Atlanta, and he was much in favor of hearing more of the same sort from the South. He then thanked the assemblage and bade them farewell, upon which they took up the line of march for Mr. Seward's residence.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Sept 13, 1864.
Postpone the execution of S. H. Anderson for two weeks. Hear what his friends can say in mitigation and report to me. A. LINCOLN Maj. Eckert Please send the above telegram. JNO. G. NICOLAY PRIV. Sec.

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans; Executive Mansion, St Louis Washington, September 13th, 1864.
Postpone the execution of Joseph Johnson, for two weeks. Examine the case and report. A. LINCOLN Major Eckert: Please send the above telegram. JNO. G. NICOLAY PRIV: Sec

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. Sep. 14. 1864. A. LINCOLN

Endorsements Concerning William Elmore
September 14, 1864
If this man's Colonel will say in writing on this sheet that he is willing to receive him back into his regiment I will pardon and send him. A LINCOLN Sep. 14. 1864 According to the foregoing, this man is pardoned and ordered to his regiment. A LINCOLN Oct. 10. 1864

To Herman H. Heath
Major H. H. Heath Executive Mansion Baltimore, Md. Washington, Sep. 15. 1864
You are hereby authorized to visit Washington. A. LINCOLN.

Memorandum:Appointment of Wilbur R. Bacon
[September 15, 1864]
Wilbur R. Bacon, born March 25. 1844, applies for West-Point---has two brothers in the Army, and is excellently well recommended. Resides in Conn.

Reply to Eustorjio Salgar
September 15, 1864
GEN. SALGAR: It is with very sincere satisfaction that I learn that peace and tranquillity have returned to the United States of Colombia. I fervently desire that your country may long continue to enjoy these great blessings, which are so essential to public happiness and to the progress of civilization, which is the great interest of all American States. We have had the pleasure of knowing your respected President intimately at this capital, and thus we have been very well assured that whomsoever he should accredit as his representative here would be found not only a true patriot, but also a liberal friend to the United States and a firm supporter of republican institutions throughout the American Continent. Your public character has preceded you here, sir, and I am happy in recognizing you, on this occasion, as such a Minister as this Government has so confidently expected. Be assured, sir, that no effort on my part will be spared to render your mission successful and satisfactory to yourself and to your enlightened countrymen.

To James B. Steedman
Major General Steadman Executive Mansion Chattanooga, Tenn. Washington, Sept 15. 1864
Mrs. McElrath, of East Tennessee is here saying she has been sent away by your order, and appealing to me to allow her to return to her home. I have told her I will if you say so. What say you? A. LINCOLN

To William P. Fessenden
September 16, 1864
If it is compatable for William M. [W.] Orme, to be appointed to the Vicksburg agency under the new rules, in addition to the appointment you have already given him, I shall be obliged to have it done.

To James B. Fry
Provost-Marshal-General: September 16, 1864
Please see and hear these gentlemen, who say that by an adjustment---settlement, so to speak---the aggregate quota for Illinois is 16, 184 men, while by some result of sub-districting the draft is about to be enforced for 29,797. Please look into this and correct the error if it exists, or make for me an intelligible statement; show no error to exist. A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine & report on this case. Sep. 16. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Franz Sigel
Major General Sigel Executive Mansion, Bethlehem, Pa. Washington, Sep. 16, 1864.
You are authorized to visit Washington, on receipt of this. A. LINCOLN

To John P. Slough
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gen. Slough, War Department, Alexandria, Va Washington, D.C., Sep. 16, 1864.
On the 14th. I commuted the sentence of Conly, but fearing you may not have received notice I send this. Do not execute him. A. LINCOLN

To William Sprague
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. William Sprague War Department, Providence, R.I. Washington, D.C., Sep. 16. 1864.
I commuted the sentence of Conley two days ago. A. LINCOLN

To William T. Sherman
Major General Sherman Executive Mansion Atlanta, Ga. Washington, D.C. Sep. 17. 1864
I feel great interest in the subjects of your despatch mentioning corn and Sorghum, & a contemplated visit to you. A LINCOLN

To Ethan A. Hitchcock
September 19, 1864.
The writer of this, who appeals for his brother, is our minister to Ecuador, and whom, if at all compatible, I would like to have obliged by a special exchange of his brother. A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt

This application being for the present denied I have allowed the applicant to withdraw the papers filed by him. A. LINCOLN Sept. 19, 1864

Memorandum
[c. September 19, 1864]
A despatch of Gen. Sherman, dated Sep. 17, 1864 among other things, says ``The Secretary of War tells me the draft will be made on Monday next. If the President modifies it to the extent of one man, or waivers in it's execution he is gone ever. The Army would vote against him''

To William T. Sherman
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C. Major General Sherman, September 19th, 1864.
The State election of Indiana occurs on the 11th. of October, and the loss of it to the friends of the Government would go far towards losing the whole Union cause. The bad effect upon the November election, and especially the giving the State Government to those who will oppose the war in every possible way, are too much to risk, if it can possibly be avoided. The draft proceeds, notwithstanding its strong tendency to lose us the State. Indiana is the only important State, voting in October, whose soldiers cannot vote in the field. Any thing you can safely do to let her soldiers, or any part of them, go home and vote at the State election, will be greatly in point. They need not remain for the Presidential election, but may return to you at once. This is, in no sense, an order, but is merely intended to impress you with the importance, to the army itself, of your doing all you safely can, yourself being the judge of what you can safely do. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John C. Ten Eyck
Hon J. C. Ten Eyck Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Sep. 19, 1864.
Dr. J. R. Freese, now editor of a leading Union Journal in New-Jersey, resided, for a time, in Illinois, when & where I made his acquaintance, and since when I have enjoyed much of his friendship. He is somewhat wounded with me now, that I do not recognize him as he thinks I ought. I wish to appoint him a Provost-Marshal in your State. May I have your approval? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Isachar Zacharie
Dr. Zacharie Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Sep. 19, 1864.
I thank you again for the deep interest you have constantly taken in the Union cause. The personal matter on behalf of your friend, which you mention, shall be fully and fairly considered when presented. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To George G. Meade
Majr Gen Meade Executive Mansion Hd Qurs Army Potomac. Sept. 20th. 1864
If you have not executed the sentence in the case of private Peter Gilner Co. F. 62. Penn vols, let it be suspended until further orders. Report to me. A. LINCOLN.

To Philip H. Sheridan
`` Cypher '' Executive Mansion, Major General Sheridan Washington, Winchester, Va Sep. 20. 1864.
Have just heard of your great victory. God bless you all, officers and men. Strongly inclined to come up and see you. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Sep. 20, 1864.
Let Mallison, the bogus proclamation man, be discharged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
September 20, 1864
The bearer will present the list of names contemplated within. The Provost Marshal General will please take the proper steps to have them examined, mustered in and discharged from prison, so as to be properly credited all according to the within. Sept 20. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edward R. S. Canby
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Canby Sep. 21. 1864.
Gen. Baily, of Rapides Parish, Louisiana, is vouched to me as entirely trustworthy, and appeals to me in behalf of the people in his region, who he says are mostly Union people, and are in great destitution---almost absolute starvation. He says their condition is greatly aggravated by Gen. Banks' expedition up Red-River, last Spring, in reliance upon which they mostly took the oath of allegiance. Of course what Gen. Baily asks is permission to carry provisions to them. This I will not give without your consent; but I will thank you to hear and consider their case, and do for them the best you can, consistently with the interests of the public service. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Charles A. Dana

Will Mr. Dana please see this young lady, and let her know the grounds on which her friends are detained at Fort-Warren. Sep. 21. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Ethan A. Hitchcock
Executive Mansion Washington, Gen. Hitchcock Sep. 21, 1864
Please see the bearer Mr. Broadwell, on a question about a mutual supplying of clothes to prisoners Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
September 21, 1864
Judge Advocate General please procure record and report on this case. A. LINCOLN Sep. 21. 1864 Pardon for unexecuted part of sentence A. LINCOLN Sept. 29. 1864

To Gustavus V. Fox

Will Capt. Fox please see the bearer & examine the model he will present? A. LINCOLN Sep. 22. 1864

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lieut. General Grant Sep. 22, 1864.
I send this as an explanation to you, and to do justice to the Secretary of War. I was induced, upon pressing application, to authorize agents of one of the Districts of Pennsylvania to recruit in one of the prisoner depots in Illinois; and the thing went so far before it came to the knowledge of the Secretary of War that in my judgment it could not be abandoned without greater evil than would follow it's going through. I did not know, at the time, that you had protested against that class of thing being done; and I now say that while this particular job must be completed, no other of the sort, will be authorized, without an understanding with you, if at all. The Secretary of War is wholly free of any part in this blunder. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
September 22, 1864
Judge Advocate General please report on this case. Sep. 22. 1864. A. LINCOLN Pardon for unexecuted part of sentence upon party returning to his regiment and faithfully serving out his term. Sep. 24. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Montgomery Blair
Hon. Montgomery Blair Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, Sep. 23. 1864.
You have generously said to me more than once, that whenever your resignation could be a relief to me, it was at my disposal. The time has come. You very well know that this proceeds from no dissatisfaction of mine with you personally or officially. Your uniform kindness has been unsurpassed by that of any friend; and, while it is true that the war does not so greatly add to the difficulties of your Department, as to those of some others, it is yet much to say, as I most truly can, that in the three years and a half during which you have administered the General Post-Office, I remember no single complaint against you in connection therewith. Yours A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Alfred G. Lawrence
September 23, 1864
I have said that if satisfactory evidence is brought to me, with this paper, that A. G. Lawrence, named within, is non compos mentis, I will discharge him A. LINCOLN Sep. 23. 1864

To Frank W. Ballard
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Frank W. Bollard War Department, New-York Washington, D.C., Sep. 24 1864.
I shall be happy to receive the deputation you mention. A. LINCOLN

To William Dennison
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. William Dennison War Department, Columbus, Ohio Washington, D.C., Sep. 24 1864.
Mr. Blair has resigned, and I appoint you Post-Master General. Come on immediately. A. LINCOLN

Executive Order Relative to the Purchase of Products of Insurrectionary States
Executive Mansion, September 24, 1864.
I. Congress having authorized the purchase for the United States of the Products of States declared in insurrection, and the Secretary of the Treasury having designated New Orleans, Memphis, Nash-ville, Pensacola, Port Royal, Beaufort, North Carolina, and Norfolk, as places of purchase, and, with my approval, appointed agents and made regulations under which said products may be purchased: Therefore, II. All persons, except such as may be in the civil, military, or naval service of the government, having in their possession any products of States declared in insurrection, which said agents are authorized to purchase, and all persons owning or controlling such products therein, are authorized to convey such products to either of the places which have been hereby, or may hereafter be, designated, as places of purchase, and such products, so destined, shall not be liable to detention, seizure, or forfeiture, while in transituor in store waiting transportation. III. Any person having the certificate of a purchasing agent, as prescribed by Treasury Regulation VIII, is authorized to pass, with the necessary means of transportation to the points named in said certificate, and to return therefrom with the products required for the fulfilment of the stipulations set forth in said certificate. IV. Any person having sold and delivered to a purchasing agent any products of an insurrectionary State, in accordance with the regulations in relation thereto, and having in his possession a certificate setting forth the fact of such purchase and sale, the character and quantity of products, and the aggregate amount paid therefor, as prescribed by Regulation IX, shall be permitted by the military authority commanding at the place of sale to purchase from any authorized dealer at such place, or any other place in a loyal State, merchandise, and other articles not contraband of war, nor prohibited by order of the War Department, nor coin, bullion, or foreign exchange, to an amount not exceeding in value one third of the aggregate value of the products sold by him as certified by the agent purchasing; and the merchandise and other articles so purchased may be transported by the same route, and to the same place, from and by which the products sold and delivered reached the purchasing agent, as set forth in the certificate, and such merchandise and other articles shall have safe conduct, and shall not be subject to detention, seizure, or forfeiture while being transported to the places and by the routes set forth in the said certificate. V. Generals commanding military districts, and commandants of military posts and detachments, and officers commanding fleets, flotillas, and gunboats, will give safe conduct to persons and products, merchandise, and other articles duly authorized as aforesaid, and not contraband of war, or prohibited by order of the War Department, or the orders of such generals commanding, or other duly authorized military or naval officer, made in pursuance hereof, and all persons hindering or preventing such safe conduct of persons or property will be deemed guilty of a military offense and punished accordingly. VI. Any person transporting, or attempting to transport, any merchandise or other articles except in pursuance of regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, dated July 29, 1864, or in pursuance of this order, or transporting or attempting to transport any merchandise or other articles contraband of war or forbidden by any order of the War Department, will be deemed guilty of a military offence and punished accordingly; and all products of insurrectionary States found in transitu to any other person or place, than a purchasing agent, and a designated place of purchase shall be seized and forfeited to the United States, except such as may be moving to a loyal State under duly authorized permits of a proper officer of the Treasury Department, as prescribed by Regulation XXXVIII, concerning ``commercial intercourse,'' dated July 29, 1864, or such as may have been found abandoned, or have been captured, and are moving in pursuance of the act of March 12, 1864. VII. No military or naval officer of the United States, or person in the military or naval service, nor any civil officer, except such as are appointed for that purpose, shall engage in trade or traffic in the products of insurrectionary States, or furnish transportation therefor under pain of being deemed guilty of unlawful trading with the enemy and punished accordingly. VIII. The Secretary of War will make such general orders or regulations as will insure the proper observance and execution of this order, and the Secretary of the Navy will give instructions to officers commanding fleets, flotillas, and gunboats in conformity therewith. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To William P. Fessenden
Executive Mansion, September 24, 1864.
The foregoing rules and regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, having been seen and considered by me, are hereby approved. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion, Washington, Judge Advocate General. Sep. 24, 1864.
It is said that Simon Ready has recently been tried by one of our Military courts in this city. I can tell no more of the case; but his poor wife is bothering me & I will thank you, if practicable, to procure the record & report on the case. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To George H. Bragonier
Geo. H. Bragonier, Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Commanding at War Department, Cumberland, Md. Washington, D.C. Sep. 25. 1864.
Postpone the execution of Private Joseph Provost until Friday the 30th. Instant. A. LINCOLN.

To Henry W. Hoffman
H. W. Hoffman. Executive Mansion, Baltimore, Md. Washington, Sep. 25. 1864.
Please come over and see me to-morrow, or as soon as convenient. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

I think this has been acted upon. Please file. Sep. 26. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Let pardon issue in this case. A. LINCOLN Sep. 26. 1864

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Major General Burbridge Executive Mansion, Lexington, Ky. Washington, Sep 26. 1864.
Terrible complaints are being made as to the discharge of Meade at Louisville. Please report the particulars of the case, including grounds of discharge. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please report. Sep. 26. 1864. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. Defoe

Allow this lady, Mrs. Defoe, to pass and have transportation from Washington to New-York. A. LINCOLN Sep. 26, 1864

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion, Major General Rosecrans, Washington, Sep. 26, 1864
One can not always safely disregard a report, even which one may not believe. I have a report that you incline to deny the soldiers the right of attending the election in Missouri, on the assumed ground that they will get drunk and make disturbance. Last year I sent Gen. Schofield a letter of instruction, dated October 1st, 1863, which I suppose you will find on the files of the Department, and which contains, among other things, the following: ``At elections see that those and only those, are allowed to vote, who are entitled to do so by the laws of Missouri, including as of those laws, the restrictions laid by the Missouri Convention upon those who may have participated in the rebellion.'' This I thought right then, and think right now; and I may add I do not remember that either party complained after the election, of Gen. Schofield's action under it. Wherever the law allows soldiers to vote, their officers must also allow it. Please write me on this subject. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Sep. 26. 1864.
Have you, as yet definitely concluded whether the order prohibiting the exportation of arms shall be recinded? Please answer by bearer. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Bermuda Hd. Va. Washington, Sep. 27, 1864.
Assistant Surgeon Wm. Crouse in here complaining that you have dismissed him and ordered him out of the Department. Please telegraph me briefly the reasons. A. LINCOLN

To William Dennison
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Wm. Dennison War Department, Columbus, O. Washington, D.C., Sep. 27 1864.
Yours received. Come so soon as you can. A. LINCOLN

To James B. Fry
Executive Mansion, Washington, Provost-Marshal General Sep. 27, 1864.
Please let the appointment of Jacob R. Freese, as Commissioner of Board of Enrollment for 2nd. Dist. of New-Jersey, in place of Mr. Wilson resigned, be made at once. Senator Ten Eyck is agreed to it. I have his letter to that effect, though I can not at this moment lay my hands on it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion September 27. 1864
Respectfully referred to Lieutenant General Grant for his consideration and decision. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Johnson Executive Mansion Nashville, Tenn. Washington, Sep. 27. 1864
I am appealed to in behalf of Robert Bridges, who it is said is to be executed next Friday. Please satisfy yourself, and give me your opinion as to what ought to be done. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning Edward Middleton
September 27, 1864
When evidence shall be brought to me, with this paper, that the father has procured a substitute who shall have been duly mustered in, I will discharge the son. A. LINCOLN Sep. 27. 1864

To William T. Sherman
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Sherman War Department, Atlanta, Ga. Washington, D.C., Sept. 27 1864.
You say Jeff. Davis is on a visit to Hood. I judge that Brown and Stephens are the objects of his visit. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Bermuda Hd. Va. Washington, Sep. 28. 1864.
For what offence was the money of John H. Lester, confiscated. Please answer & if practicable send me the record of confiscation. A. LINCOLN

To John R. Cannon
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, J. R. Cannon War Department, New-Albany, Ia. Washington, D.C., Sept 28th. 1864.
It will be impossible for me to attend your ratification meeting. Thank you for the invitation A. LINCOLN

To Charles A. Dana

Will Assistant Sec. of War, Dana please see & hear this lady? Sep. 28. 1864 A LINCOLN

To John F. Miller
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Officer in Command at War Department, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, D.C., Sept. 28. 1864.
Execution of Jesse A. Broadway is hereby respited to Friday the 14th. day of October next. A. LINCOLN

To John Cessna
Hon. J. Cessna, War Department Harrisburg, Pa. Washington City, Sep. 29. 1864
Your received. See McClure on the subject you speak of. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
``Cypher'' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Gen. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va Washington, D.C., Sep. 29 1864.
I hope it will lay no constraint on you, nor do harm any way, for me to say I am a little afraid lest Lee sends re-enforcements to Early, and thus enables him to turn upon Sheridan. A. LINCOLN.

To John F. Miller
Officer in Command at Executive Mansion Nashville, Tenn. Washington, Sept. 29. 1864
Let the execution of Robert T. Bridges be suspended until further order from me. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Bermuda Hd. Va Washington, Sep. 30, 1864.
Is there a man in your Department by the name of James Hallion, under sentence, and if so, what is the sentence,? and what for? A. LINCOLN

To William Hoffman
Executive Mansion Col. Hoffman, Washington, Sep. 30. 1864
Let John S. Conn, now a prisoner of war at Camp Douglas, Illinois, take the oath of Dec. 8. 1864 [ sic ], and be discharged. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Lessees and Owners of Plantations Worked by Freedmen
Executive Order} concerning Lessees and Owners of} Executive Mansion, Plantations worked by Freedmen.} September [30?], 1864.
For the purpose of encouraging persons, formerly held as slaves, to labor as freedmen in insurrectionary States that they may become self-supporting, and that the products of their labor may benefit the country, and for the purpose of protecting all persons employing such labor under rules relating thereto, established under proper authority, it is hereby ordered: I. All officers, commanding military Departments, Districts, Posts, Naval fleets and vessels, will at once suspend  all orders made by them or in force within their respective commands, so far as they  prohibit or in any manner interfere with the transportation of supplies to, or products from, any plantation worked by free labor under rules relating thereto, prescribed or approved by the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided such transportation is being made in pursuance of permits granted by duly authorized officers of the Treasury Department, and all persons hindering or interfering with transportation to or from such plantations so worked, which has been so permitted, will be deemed guilty of a military offence and punished accordingly. II. Agreements have been made with owners of lands who have recognized the freedom of their former slaves, and leases have been made of abandoned plantations under authority of the Government, and good faith to such owners and lessees requires due observance of the terms of all such agreements and leases on the part of all civil and military officers of the Government; therefore all military and naval officers will aid in securing such observance by every means at their command which can be used for that purpose without interfering with active military or naval operations. III. Such orders will be made by general and local military and naval commanders as will insure the fulfilment of the purposes of this order, and as will afford the greatest possible protection to the laborers and employers above named, consistent with the safety of their commands and the success of any military or naval movement being made by them.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion Dear Sir Washington, Sep. 30. 1864
The accompanying is the draft of an order drawn up at the Treasury Department for me to sign. Please look over it, and say whether you perceive any objection. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. StantonSeptember 30, 1864.

I think the bearer of this, Second Lieutenant Albee, deserves a hearing. Will the Secretary of War please accord it to him? A. LINCOLN.

To Lorenzo ThomasSeptember 30, 1864

I have seen this man, who seems to be an intelligent & manly man, and whose story I believe to be true. If it does not invol[v]e much inconvenience, let the transfer he asks, be made. Sep. 30. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
[October, 1864]
Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion October 1, 1864
Will the Judge Advocate General please examine and report upon this case as soon as convenient. A. LINCOLN

Order for Pardon of John S. Ward

Let this man, John S. Ward take the oath of Dec. 8 1863, be exchanged & report to Gov. Johnson at Nashville Tenn. Oct 1 1864 A. LINCOLN

Order of Thanks to One Hundred Day Troops
Executive Mansion, Washington, October 1, 1864.
The term of 100 days, for which volunteers from the States of Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin volunteered, under the call of their respective Governors, in the months of May and June, to aid in the recent campaign of General Sherman, having expired, the President directs an official acknowledgment to be made of their patriotic service. It was their good fortune to render effective service in the brilliant operations in the Southwest, and to contribute to the victories of the national arms over the rebel forces in Georgia under command of Johnston and Hood. On all occasions, and in every service to which they were assigned, their duty as patriotic volunteers was performed with alacrity and courage, for which they are entitled to and are hereby tendered the national thanks through the Governors of their respective States. The Secretary of War is directed to transmit a copy of this order to the Governors of Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin, and to cause a certificate  of their honorable services to be delivered to the officers and soldiers of the States above named, who recently served in the military force of the United States as volunteers for 100 days. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To William T. Otto
October 1, 1864
Understanding that persons giving credit in this case will have no strictly legal claim upon the government, yet the necessity for it is so great and urgent, that I shall most cheerfully urge upon Congress that such credit and claims fairly given and made, shall be recognized and paid. A. LINCOLN Oct. 1. 1864.

To Joseph Roberts
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Officer in Command at War Department, Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, D.C., Oct. 1 1864.
Is there a man by the name of James Hallion (I think) under sentence? and what is his offence? what the sentence? and when to be executed? A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Let a pardon be made out in this case. Oct. 3, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To William P. Fessenden
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Secretary of the Treasury: Oct. 3, 1864.
My dear Sir, Mr. Hallowell who brings this, has a very meritorious cotton-case & I hope it may be found that the same sort of thing can be done for him that was for Judge Johnson  of Cincinnati. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for Mrs. Charlotte Hough
Executive Mansion Washington, Oct. 3, 1864
I have but slight personal acquaintance with the bearer of this Mrs. Lotty Hough; but I have known something of her by reputation for several years and never heard aught against her. She is now struggling to support herself and her little boy, and I hope she may be afforded fair opportunities to succeed. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the service can be made useful, let Capt. Dewey be appointed an Assistant Quarter-Master A. LINCOLN Oct. 3. 1864

Order for Discharge

Let this boy be discharged, on refunding any bounty received. Oct. 4. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Order for Pardon of Roswell McIntyre
Executive Mansion, Washington, Oct. 4. 1864.
Upon condition that Roswell McIntyre of Co. E. 6th. Regt. of New-York Cavalry returns to his Regiment and faithfully serves out his term, making up for lost time, or until otherwise lawfully discharged, he is fully pardoned for any supposed desertion heretofore committed; and this paper is his pass to go to his regiment. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion Washington Lieut Gen Grant, Oct. 5th. 1864.
I enclose you copy of a correspondence  in regard to a contemplated exchange of Naval prisoners through your lines and not very distant from your Head Quarters. It only came to the knowledge of the War Department and of myself yesterday, and it gives us some uneasiness. I therefore send it to you with the statement that as the numbers to be exchanged under it are small, and so much has already been done to effect the exchange, I hope you may find it consistent to let it go forward under the general supervision of Gen Butler, and particularly in reference to the points he holds vital in exchanges. Still you are at liberty to arrest the whole operation, if in your judgment the public good requires it. Yours Truly A. LINCOLN

To William Hoffman

Col. Hoffman please see & hear this lady & oblige her if it can be consistently done. A. LINCOLN Oct. 5, 1864

To Joseph Holt
October 5, 1864
Judge Advocate General please procure record & report on this case. Oct. 5. 1864 A. LINCOLN Pardon for unexecuted part of sentence. A. LINCOLN Jan. 23. 1865.

To John F. Miller
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Officer in command at War Department, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, D.C., Oct. 5 1864.
Suspend execution of Thomas K. Miller until further order from me. A LINCOLN

To William P. Fessenden

The bearer, Judge Peck, is my good friend, whom I hope the Sec. of Treasury will see & hear. A. LINCOLN Oct. 6. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 6, 1864
Hon. Sec. of War please see Mr. Wood, one of the Penn. agents, who has some fears that a misdescription of the functions of himself & colleagues in their passes, may create difficulty. Oct. 6. 1864. A. LINCOLN

Appointment of Directors of Union Pacific Railroad
Executive Mansion, October 7th 1864.
By virtue of the authority conferred upon the President of the United States, by the thirteenth section of the act of Congress approved July 2, 1864, amending the act to aid in the construction of a Railroad and Telegraph line from the Missouri river to the Pacific Ocean &c. Jesse L. Williams of Indiana George Ashmun of Massachusetts Charles T. Sherman of Ohio Springer Harbaugh of Pennsylvania, and Timothy J. Carter of Illinois are hereby appointed directors on the part of the Government of the United States, for the Union Pacific Railroad and Telegraph Company, to serve until the next ensuing regular election of directors for said Company, and until their successors are qualified. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
October 7, 1864
Believing there was technichal wrong in these cases, on a point which the government can not safely disregard, and yet having great doubt whether there was moral guilt in these particular cases, it is ordered that the fine in each case is reduced to one thousand dollars, the excess being remitted. A. LINCOLN Oct. 7. 1864

To Henry J. Raymond
October 7, 1864
I well remember the meetings herein narrated. See nothing for me to object to in the narrative as being made by General McDoWell, except the phrase attributed to me `` of the Jacobinism of Congress ,'' which phrase I do not remember using literally or in substance, and which I wish not to be published in any event. October 7, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

To James B. Fry
War Department, Washington, D.C., October 8, 1864.
It is now said that under present instructions in recruiting from prisoners at Rock Island the names of those willing to enlist have to be first ascertained and sent here, and then an order from here for their examination and muster of such as are found suitable. It is proposed to change this so that the ascertainment of names, examination, and muster can all be gone through with there, under the supervision of Colonel Johnson and Captain Rathbone  , thus saving much time and trouble. It is also proposed that the restriction in the President's order limiting the recruits to persons of foreign and Northern birth be removed, and that the question of good faith on the part of those offering to enlist be left to the judgment and discretion of Colonel Johnson and Colonel Caraher  . The limit of the whole not to exceed 1,750 men.

To Simon Cameron
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gen. Simon Cameron War Department, Philadelphia Washington, D.C., Oct. 9. 1864.
There is absolutely no news here from the Army of the Potomac not published in Stantons bulletins of yesterday and before. The line is open, and mere business despatches are passing over it. Have no alarm, on bogus despatches. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew G. Curtin
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Curtin War Department, Washington, D.C., Harrisburg Pa. Oct. 10. 5. PM. 1864.
Yours of to-day just this moment received; & the Secretary having left it is impossible for me to answer to-day. I have not received your letter from Erie. A LINCOLN

To Henry W. Hoffman
Hon. Henry W Hoffman Executive Mansion, Washington, My dear Sir: October 10, 1864.
A convention of Maryland has framed a new constitution for the State; a public meeting is called for this evening, at Baltimore, to aid in securing its ratification by the people; and you ask a word from me, for the occasion. I presume the only feature of the instrument, about which there is serious controversy, is that which provides for the extinction of slavery. It needs not to be a secret, and I presume it is no secret, that I wish success to this provision. I desire it on every consideration. I wish all men to be free. I wish the material prosperity of the already free which I feel sure the extinction of slavery would bring. I wish to see, in process of disappearing, that only thing which ever could bring this nation to civil war. I attempt no argument. Argument upon the question is already exhausted by the abler, better informed  , and more immediately interested sons of Maryland herself. I only add that I shall be gratified exceedingly if the good people of the State shall, by their votes, ratify the new constitution. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for Josiah Shaw

I shall be glad if Capt. Shaw, recently in our service, can get suitable employment in any of the Departments. Oct. 10, 1864 A. LINCOLN

Testimony Concerning Shelling of Houses Near Fort Stevens
A. Executive Mansion Washington Oct. 10. 1864
I was present at Fort Stevens (I think) on the afternoon of July 12th. 1864, when some houses in front were shelled by our guns, and understanding that the Military officers in command thought the shelling of the houses proper and necessary, I certainly gave my approbation to its being done A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Oct. 10, 1864.
The bearer, Mr. Jones, calls on you to obtain facilities for taking the votes of Seamen & Sailors. Please do all for him in this respect which you consistently can. Mr. Jones is Chairman of the Union State Central Committee for the State of New York. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Simon Cameron
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gen. S. Cameron War Department, Washington, D.C., Philadelphia Pa & Harrisburgh  Oct. 11. 1864.
Am leaving office to go home. How does it stand now? A. LINCOLN

To Andrew G. Curtin
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Curtin War Department, Washington, D.C., Harrisburg, Pa. Oct. 11 1864.
On looking up the Col. Stover case this morning I find we could not, without further information, be at all justified in ordering him to be mustered. I hope it can be made straight; but the record as it stands is too bad. A copy will be immediately sent you by mail. A. LINCOLN

To Robert T. Lincoln
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Robert T. Lincoln War Department, Cambridge, Mass. Washington, D.C., Oct. 11 1864.
Your letter makes us a little uneasy about your health. Telegraph us how you are. If you think it would help you make us a visit. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 11, 1864
I wish to appoint Ebenezer J. Bennett of St. Louis, Mo., an Assistant Quarter Master, or Commissary of Subsistence. If service can be found for him, let him be appointed.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va Washington, D.C., Oct. 12. 1864.
Sec. of War not being in, I answer yours about election. Pennsylvania very close, and still in doubt on home vote. Ohio largely for us, with all the members of congress but two or three. Indiana largely for us. Governor, it is said by 15,000, and 8. of the eleven members of congress. Send us what you may know of your army vote. A LINCOLN

Order Concerning theFusigama
Executive Mansion, Washington, 12th October, 1864.
The Japanese Government having caused the construction at New York of a vessel of war called the `Fusigama,' and application having been made for the clearance of the same in order that it may proceed to Japan, it is ordered, in view of the state of affairs in that country and of its relations with the United States, that a compliance with the application be, for the present, suspended. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. Oct. 13, 1864 A. LINCOLN

Estimated Electoral Vote
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, War Department, Washington, D.C., October 13th. 1864.
Supposed Copperhead Vote . Union Vote, for President New-York 	33 	New England States 	39 Penn	26	Michigan	8 New Jersey	7	Wisconsin	8 Delaware	3	Minnesota	4 Maryland	7	Iowa	8 Missouri 	11 	Oregon	3 Kentucky 	11 	California	5 Illinois 	16 	Kansas	3 --- 	Indiana		13 114 	Ohio	21 W. Virginia	5 --- 117 Nevada	3 --- 120

To Oliver P. Morton
Cypher Office U.S. Military Telegraph,
Gov. O. P. Morton War Department, Washington, D.C., Indianapolis, Ind. Oct. 13 1864.
In my letter borne by Mr. Mitchell to Gen. Sherman, I said that any soldiers he could spare for October need not to remain for November. I therefore can not press the General on this point. All that the Sec. of War and Gen. Sherman feel they can safely do, I however, shall be glad of. Bravo, for Indiana, and for yourself personally. A. LINCOLN.

To Godlove S. Orth
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. G. S. Orth War Department, Washington, D.C., LaFayette, Ind. Oct. 13 1864.
I now incline to defer the appointment of Judge until the meeting of Congress. A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major Gen. Butler Executive Mansion, Butlers Hd Qrs. Va. Washington, Oct. 14, 1864.
It is said that Captain Joseph R. Findley of Co. F. 76. Penn. Vols. has been summarily dismissed the service for supposed skulking. Such representations are made to me of his good character, long service, and good behavior in many battles as to induce the wish that you would re-examine his case. At all events send me a statement of it as you have A. LINCOLN

To James B. Fry
Executive Mansion Washington, Provost-Marshal-General. Oct. 14, 1864
Hon. Charles O'Neill states that the 1st. Ward, in the 2nd. Congressional District in Philadelphia, is entitled to an additional credit on the draft of about 95 men, of Naval enlistments, which are only refused on a question of time---or, in other words, that they may have the credit on the next , but not on the present draft. If there be no mistake in this statement, let them have the credit now . Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Please send the papers of Major Gansler, by the bearer, Mr. Longnecker. A. LINCOLN Oct. 14. 1864

To Henry W. Hoffman
Cypher Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. H. W. Hoffman War Department, Baltimore, Md. Washington, D.C., Oct 15. 1864.
Come over to-night and see me. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

More likely to abstain from stopping once they get at it, until they shall have voted several times each. A.L. Oct. 16. 1864.

To James K. Moorhead
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. J. K. Moorehead War Department, Pittsburgh, Pa. Washington, D.C., Oct. 16 1864.
I do not rem[em]ber about the Peter Gilner case, and must look it up before I can answer. A. LINCOLN

Appointment of George Harrington
Washington, October 17th. 1864.
George Harrington, is hereby appointed to discharge the duties of Secretary of the Treasury, during the absence of Wm. P. Fessenden, the Secretary. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Joseph K. Barnes

Surgeon General please say in writing on this whether there is, & where, a vacant Hospital chaplaincy. A. LINCOLN Oct. 17. 1864

To Andrew G. Curtin
Cypher Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. A. G. Curtin War Department, Harrisburg, Pa. Washington, D.C., Oct. 17 1864.
Your information is erroneous. No part of Sheridan's force has left him, except by expiration of terms of service. I think there is not much danger of a raid into Pennsylvania. A. LINCOLN

To Charles A. Dana
Executive Mansion, Washington, Oct. 17, 1864.
Will Mr. Dana please report to me on the case of Constantine Bowling? A. LINCOLN

To Alfred B. Justice and Others
Executive Mansion, Washington, Mr A. B. Justice & others; October 17th, 1864.
I have received at the hands of Hon. Wm. D. Kelley, a very beautiful and ingeniously constructed Pocket Knife, accompanied by your kind letter of presentation. The gift is gratefully accepted and will be highly valued, not only as an extremely creditable specimen of American workmanship, but as a manifestation of your regard and esteem which I most cordially appreciate. Your ob't serv't A. LINCOLN

To Horatio G. Wright
Executive Mansion, Washington, Oct. 17, 1864.
S. S. Bradford, whose residence is in Culpeper Co. Va, and who is a brother-in-law, of Gen. H. G. Wright, is now on parole not to go South of Philadelphia. If Gen. Wright will request it in writing on this sheet, I will allow Mr. Bradford to go home to Culpeper. A. LINCOLN

To Ethan A. Hitchcock

Will Gen. Hitchcock, please see & hear the bearer, Mr. Leech. Oct. 19. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Response to a Serenade
Friends and Fellow-citizens:  October 19, 1864
I am notified that this is a compliment paid me by the loyal Marylanders, resident in this District. I infer that the adoption of the new constitution for the State, furnishes the occasion; and that, in your view, the extirpation of slavery constitutes the chief merit of the new constitution. Most heartily do I congratulate you, and Maryland, and the nation, and the world, upon the event. I regret that it did not occur two years sooner, which I am sure would have saved to the nation more money than would have met all the private loss incident to the measure. But it has come at last, and I sincerely hope it's friends may fully realize all their anticipations of good from it; and that it's opponents may, by it's effects, be agreeably and profitably, disappointed. A word upon another subject. Something said by the Secretary of State in his recent speech at Auburn, has been construed by some into a threat that, if I shall be beaten at the election, I will, between then and the end of my constitutional term, do what I may be able, to ruin the government. Others regard the fact that the Chicago Convention adjourned, not sine die , but to meet again, if called to do so by a particular individual, as the intimation of a purpose that if their nominee shall be elected, he will at once seize control of the government. I hope the good people will permit themselves to suffer no uneasiness on either point. I am struggling to maintain government, not to overthrow it. I am struggling especially to prevent others from overthrowing it. I therefore say, that if I shall live, I shall remain President until the fourth of next March; and that whoever shall be constitutionally elected therefor in November, shall be duly installed as President on the fourth of March; and that in the interval I shall do my utmost that whoever is to hold the helm for the next voyage, shall start with the best possible chance to save the ship. This is due to the people both on principle, and under the constitution. Their will, constitutionally expressed, is the ultimate law for all. If they should deliberately resolve to have immediate peace even at the loss of their country, and their liberty, I know not the power or the right to resist them. It is their own business, and they must do as they please with their own. I believe, however, they are still resolved to preserve their country and their liberty; and in this, in office or out of it, I am resolved to stand by them. I may add that in this purpose to save the country and it's liberties, no classes of people seem so nearly unanamous as the soldiers in the field and the seamen afloat. Do they not have the hardest of it? Who should quail while they do not? God bless the soldiers and seamen, with all their brave commanders.

To Christopher C. Augur
October 20, 1864
If not inconsistent with the service, will Gen. Augur please allow the furlough requested. The father of the boy is a domestic in my service. A. LINCOLN Oct. 20, 1864

To Isabel II
October 20, 1864
Abraham Lincoln: President of the United States of America. To Her Majesty Doa Isabel II. By the Grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy, Queen of Spain, &c. &c. Great and Good Friend:---I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 30th. of June last, announcing the marriage of your niece, Her Royal Highness, the Infante Doa Maria Isabel Francisca de Asis, to His Royal Highness the Count of Paris, Louis Phillippe of Orleans. I participate in the satisfaction afforded by this happy event, and offer to Your Majesty my sincere congratulations on the occasion, and so recommend Your Majesty, and Your Majesty's Royal Family to the protection of the Almighty. Your Good Friend, Washington, October 20th. 1864 ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By the President, WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To Isabel II
October 20, 1864
Abraham Lincoln: President of the United States of America. To Her Majesty Doa Isabel II. By the Grace of God and the Constitution of the Spanish Monarchy, Queen of Spain, &c. &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 12th. of March last, conveying the melancholy tidings of the decease of His Royal Highness the Infante Don Felipe Ramon Marie, Your Majesty's beloved nephew. I participate in the grief occasioned by this sad event and offer to Your Majesty and to Your Royal household my sincere condolence. May God have Your Majesty always in His safe and holy keeping. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, October 20th. 1864. By the President, WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

Memorandum Concerning James Hughes
October 20, 1864
I am willing that any case, that of Judge Hughes as well as another, if coming within the precedent of what I call the Johnson case, may go as the Johnson case did. I really desire that Judge Hughes shall be obliged. A. LINCOLN Oct. 20, 1864.

Order Concerning Mrs. Annie Wittenmyer
October 20, 1864
Let this Lady have transportation to any of the Armies, and any previleges while there, not objected to by the commanders of the armies respectively. A. LINCOLN. Oct. 20. 1864

Proclamation of Thanksgiving
October 20, 1864
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. It has pleased Almighty God to prolong our national life another year, defending us with his guardian care against unfriendly designs from abroad, and vouchsafing to us in His mercy many and signal victories over the enemy, who is of our own household. It has also pleased our Heavenly Father to favor as well our citizens in their homes as our soldiers in their camps and our sailors on the rivers and seas with unusual health. He has largely augmented our free population by emancipation and by immigration, while he has opened to us new sources of wealth, and has crowned the labor of our working men in every department of industry with abundant rewards. Moreover, He has been pleased to animate and inspire our minds and hearts with fortitude, courage and resolution sufficient for the great trial of civil war into which we have been brought by our adherence as a nation to the cause of Freedom and Humanity, and to afford to us reasonable hopes of an ultimate and happy deliverance from all our dangers and afflictions. Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do, hereby, appoint and set apart the last Thursday in November next as a day, which I desire to be observed by all my fellow-citizens wherever they may then be as a day of Thanksgiving and Praise to Almighty God the beneficent Creator and Ruler of the Universe. And I do farther recommend to my fellow-citizens aforesaid that on that occasion they do reverently humble themselves in the dust and from thence offer up penitent and fervent prayers and supplications to the Great Disposer of events for a return of the inestimable blessings of Peace, Union and Harmony throughout the land, which it has pleased him to assign as a dwelling place for ourselves and for our posterity throughout all generations. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington this twentieth day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty four, and, of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H SEWARD Secretary of State.

To William I
October 20, 1864
Abraham Lincoln: President of the United States of America. To His Majesty William I. King of Prussia, &c. &c. Great and Good Friend: I have received the letter which Your Majesty was pleased to address to me on the 16th. ultimo, announcing the birth of a Prince to your well beloved daughter-in-law, the wife of the Prince Royal of Prussia, the Princess Victoria Adelaide Maria Louisa Princess Royal of Great Britain and Ireland and Duchess of Saxony. I participate in the satisfaction which this happy event has afforded to Your Majesty, and to Your Majesty's Royal Family, and offer my sincere congratulations upon the occasion. May God have Your Majesty, always in His safe and holy keeping. Your Good Friend, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, October 20th. 1864. By the President, WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To John G. Nicolay
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, J. G. Nicolay War Department, Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Mo. Oct. 21. 9/45 PM 1864.
While Curtis is fighting Price have you any idea where the force under Rosecrans is? or what it is doing? A. LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. J. R. Reid
October 21, 1864
Allow Mrs. J. R. Reid, with her little daughter, to pass our lines at any convenient point on or near the James River, and come to Washington. A. LINCOLN Oct. 21. 1864.

Response to a Serenade
October 21, 1864
FELLOW-CITIZENS: I was promised not to be called upon for a speech to-night, nor do I propose to make one. But, as we have been hearing some very good news for a day or two, I propose that you give three hearty cheers for Sheridan. While we are at it we may as well consider how fortunate it was for the Secesh that Sheridan was a very little man. If he had been a large man, there is no knowing what he would have done with them. I propose three cheers for General Grant, who knew to what use to put Sheridan; three cheers for all our noble commanders and the soldiers and sailors; three cheers for all people everywhere who cheer the soldiers and sailors of the Union---and now, good night.

To William B. Campbell and Others
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., Oct. 22, 1864.
Messrs. Wm. B. Campbell, Thos. A. R. Nelson, James T. P. Carter, John Williams, A. Blizzard, Henry Cooper, Bailie Peyton, John Lellyett, Em. Etheridge, John D. Perryman: Gentlemen: On the 15th day of this month, as I remember, a printed paper, with a few manuscript interlineations, called a protest, with your names appended thereto, and accompanied by another printed paper purporting to be a proclamation by Andrew Johnson, Military Governor of Tennessee, and also a manuscript paper purporting to be extracts from the Code of Tennessee, was laid before me. The Protest, Proclamation and Extracts are respectively as follows: To his Excellency Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States : SIR: The undersigned, loyal citizens of the United States and of the State of Tennessee, on our own behalf and on behalf of the loyal people of our State, ask leave to submit this Protest against the Proclamation of his Excellency Andrew Johnson, Military Governor, ordering an election to be held for President and Vice President, under certain regulations and restrictions therein set forth. A printed copy of said proclamation is herewith enclosed. The Constitution of the United States provides that ``Each State shall appoint, in such manner as the Legislature thereof may direct , a number of electors,'' &c. Under this provision of the Federal Constitution, the Legislature of Tennessee, years before the present rebellion, prescribed the mode of election to be observed, which will be found to differ essentially from the mode prescribed by the Military Governor. We herewith enclose a copy of the Law of Tennessee governing the holding of said election. The Military Governor expressly assumes, by virtue of authority derived from the President, to so alter and amend the election law of Tennessee, (enacted under authority of the Constitution of the United States, as above set forth,) as to make the same conform to his own edict as set forth in the proclamation aforesaid. He assumes so as to modify our law as to admit persons to vote at the said election who are not entitled to vote under the law and the Constitution of Tennessee. Instance this: our Constitution and Law require that each voter shall be ``a citizen of the county wherein he may offer his vote, for six months next preceding the day of election;'' while the Governor's order only requires that he shall (with other qualifications named) be a citizen of Tennessee for six months, &c. This provision would admit to vote many persons not entitled by law. We will, for the sake of brevity, pass over some less important points of conflict between the proclamation and the law, but will instance in this place another. By our law it is provided that the polls shall be opened in every civil district in each county in the state; but the proclamation provides only for their being opened at one place in each county. This provision would put it out of the power of many legal voters to exercise the elective franchise. We solemnly protest against these infringements of our law, conflicting as they do, with the very letter of the Federal Constitution, because they are without authority, and because they will prevent a free, fair, and true expression of the will of the loyal people of Tennessee. But we protest still more emphatically against the most unusual and impracticable test oath which it is proposed to require of all citizen voters in Tennessee. A citizen qualified to vote, and whose loyalty cannot be ``disproved by other testimony,'' is to be required to swear, first, that he ``will henceforth support the Constitution of the United States, and defend it against all enemies.'' This obligation we are willing to renew daily; but this is not yet deemed a sufficient test of loyalty. He is required to make oath and subscribe to a mass of vain repetitions concerning his activity as a friend of the Union and the enemy of its enemies---concerning his desires his hopes and fears---and that he finds it in his heart to rejoice over the scenes of blood, and of wounds, of anguish and death, wherein his friends, his kindred, his loved ones are slain, or maimed, or made prisoners of war---whereby the land of his birth or adoption is made desolate, and lamentation and mourning are spread over the whole nation. While all the civilized world stands aghast in contemplation of the unequalled horrors of our tremendous strife, the citizen of Tennessee is called upon by her Military Governor, under your authority, to swear that in these things he finds occasion to rejoice ! As if this were still not enough, the citizen is further required to swear to the indefinite prolongation of this war, as follows: ``That I will cordially oppose all armistices or negotiations for peace with rebels in arms , until the Constitution of the United States and all laws and proclamations made in pursuance thereof shall be established over all the people of every State and Territory embraced within the National Union;'' until (in brief) the war shall be at an end. Now, we freely avow to your Excellency, and to the world, that we earnestly desire the return of peace and good-will to our now unhappy country---that we seek neither pleasure, profit, nor honor in the perpetuation of war---that we should feel bound, as Christians, as patriots and as civilized men---that we are bound by the oaths we have taken---to countenance and encourage any negotiations which may be entered into by the proper authorities with the intent to restore peace and union under the Constitution we have sworn to support and defend. We should be traitors to our country, false to our oaths---false, indeed, to the primary clause of the oath we are now discussing, to oppose such negotiations. We cannot consent to swear at the ballot-box a war of extermination against our countrymen and kindred, or to prolong by our opposition, for a single day after it can be brought to an honorable and lawful conclusion, a contest the most sanguinary and ruinous that has scourged mankind. You will not have forgotten, that in the month of July last, you issued the following proclamation: ``Executive Mansion, ``To whom it may concern: Washington, July 8 , 1864. ``Any proposition which embraces the restoration of peace, the integrity of the whole Union, and the abandonment of slavery, and which comes by and with an authority that can control the armies now at war against the United States, will be received and considered by the Executive Government of the United States, and will be met by liberal terms on other substantial and collateral points; and the bearer or bearers thereof shall have safe conduct both ways. ``ABRAHAM LINCOLN.'' This is certainly a proposition to treat with rebels in arms---with their chiefs. Are we now to understand by this proclamation of one acting under your authority, and himself a candidate with you for the second office, that even the above proposition is withdrawn---that you will henceforth have no negotiations upon any terms, but unrelenting war to the bitter end? Or, are we to understand, that while you hold this proposition open, or yourself free to act as your judgment may dictate, we, the citizens of Tennessee, shall swear to OPPOSE your negotiations? In the next breath, the voter who has been thus qualified , is required to swear that he will ``heartily aid and assist the loyal people in whatever measures may be adopted for the attainment of these ends.'' Adopted by whom? The oath does not say. We cannot tell what measures may be adopted. We cannot comment upon the absurdity of the obligation here imposed, without danger of departing from that respectful propriety of language which we desire to preserve in addressing the Chief Magistrate of the American people. But this is a clause of an oath which the candidate for the Vice Presidency requires at the lips of the loyal and qualified voters of Tennessee, before these citizens shall be allowed to vote for or against you and himself at the coming election! For these reasons, and others, which, for the sake of brevity, we omit, we solemnly protest against the interference of the Military Governor with the freedom of the elective franchise in Tennessee. We deny his authority and yours, to alter, amend, or annul any law of Tennessee. We demand that Tennessee be allowed to appoint her Electors as expressly provided by the Federal Constitution, which you have sworn to support, protect, and defend, in the manner which the Legislature thereof has prescribed. And to that end we respectfully demand of you, as the principal under whose authority this order has been issued, that the same shall be revoked. We ask that all military interference shall be withdrawn so far as to allow the loyal men of Tennessee a full and free election. By the loyal men of Tennessee we mean those who have not participated in the rebellion, or given it aid and comfort; or who may have complied with such terms of amnesty as have been offered them under your authority. On the 8th day of December, 1863, you, as President, issued a Proclamation, declaring that ``a full pardon is hereby granted, with restoration of all rights of property,'' &c., to each of our citizens having participated, directly or by implication, in the existing rebellion, (with certain exceptions,) ``upon the condition that every such person shall take and subscribe an oath, and thenceforward keep and maintain said oath inviolate.'' And it is further provided in the Proclamation aforesaid, that in the contingency of the reorganization of a State Government in Tennessee, or certain other States named, the persons having taken the oath referred to, being otherwise qualified by the election law of the State, shall be entitled to vote. The undersigned would state, that many of our citizens have complied in good faith with the terms of amnesty proposed in your Proclamation aforesaid; and are, therefore, by reason of the full pardon granted them, fully entitled to vote and exercise all other rights belonging to loyal citizens, without let or hindrance; and we respectfully appeal to you, as President of the United States, to make good your promise of pardon to these citizens, by the removal of all other and further hindrance to their exercise of the elective franchise. But if it be claimed upon the plea of military necessity, that guards and restrictions shall be thrown around the ballot-box in Tennessee, we still ask the withdrawal of the Proclamation of the Military Governor, because the conditions thereby imposed upon the loyal men of Tennessee as a qualification for voting, are irrelevant, unreasonable, and not in any sense a test of loyalty. But they pledge the citizen to oppose the lawful authorities in the discharge of their duty. The oath required is only calculated to keep legal and rightful voters from the polls. We suggest that no oath be required but such as is prescribed by law. Our people will not hesitate, however, to take the usual oath of loyalty---for example, in the language of the primary clause of the oath in question: ``That I will henceforth support the Constitution of the United States, and defend it against the assaults of its enemies.'' Denying your right to make any departure from the law in the case, we shall, however, feel no hardship in this. The convention to which Governor Johnson refers was a mere partisan meeting, having no authority, and not representing the loyal men of Tennessee, in any sense. The names of the signers of this protest have been placed before the people of Tennessee as candidates for Electors, who, if chosen, are expected to cast the electoral vote of Tennessee for George B. McClellan for President, and George H. Pendleton for Vice President. By virtue of such position, it becomes our province especially to appear before you in the attitude we do. We are aware that grave questions may arise, in any event, with regard to the regularity of the vote in Tennessee, in consequence of the partially disorganized condition of the State. The friends of your re-election, however, announced an electoral ticket; and the public became aware that preparations were being made for the holding of the election, leaving that matter no longer a question. Some time thereafter, our electoral ticket was placed before the public, and within a few days followed the proclamation complained of. We, for ourselves and those we represent, are willing to leave all questions involving the right of Tennessee to participate in the election to the decision of competent authority. For the State at Large . WM. B. CAMPBELL, of Wilson County. THOS. A. R. NELSON, of Washington county. For the Districts . JAMES T. P. CARTER, of Carter county. JOHN WILLIAMS, of Knox county. A. BLIZARD, of McMinn county. HENRY COOPER, of Bedford county. BAILIE PEYTON, of Sumner county. JOHN LELLYETT, of Davidson county. EM. ETHERIDGE, of Weakley county. JOHN D. PERRYMAN, of Shelby county. PROCLAMATION. BY THE GOVERNOR. State of Tennessee, Nashville, Tenn. Sept 30th, 1864. Executive Department, Whereas, a respectable portion of the loyal people of Tennessee, representing a large number of the counties of the State, and supposed to reflect the will of the Union men in their respective counties, recently held a convention in the city of Nashville, in which, among other things touching the re-organization of the State, they with great unanimity adopted the following resolutions: 2. Resolved , That the people of Tennessee who are now and have been attached to the National Union, do hold an election for President and Vice President in the ensuing election in November. 3. That the electors shall be the following and no others; the same being free white men, twenty-one years of age, citizens of the United States, and for six months previous to the election, citizens of the State of Tennessee--- 1st. All who have voluntarily borne arms in the service of the United States during the present war, and who are either in the service or have been honorably discharged. 2d. All the known active friends of the Government of the United States in each county. 4. Resolved , That the citizen electors designated in the foregoing resolutions shall, at least fifteen days before the election, register their names with an agent to be appointed for that purpose, and no citizen not thus registered shall be allowed to vote. Such registration shall be open to the public for inspection, and to be executed according to such regulations as may hereafter be prescribed: Provided that the officers of the election, in the discharge of their duty, may reject any party so registered on proof of disloyalty. 5. Resolved , That, as means for ascertaining the qualification of the voters, the registers and officers holding the election may examine the parties on oath touching any matter of fact. And each voter, before depositing his vote, shall be required to take and subscribe the following oath, viz: I solemnly swear that I will henceforth support the Constitution of the United States, and defend it against the assaults of all enemies; that I am an active friend of the Government of the United States, and the enemy of the so-called Confederate States; that I ardently desire the suppression of the present rebellion against the Government of the United States; that I sincerely rejoice in the triumph of the armies and navies of the United States, and in the defeat and overthrow of the armies, navies, and of all armed combinations in the interest of the socalled Confederate States; that I will cordially oppose all armistices or negotiations for peace with rebels in arms, until the Constituion of the United States and all laws and proclamations made in pursuance thereof, shall be established over all the people of every State and Territory embraced within the National Union, and that I will heartily aid and assist the loyal people in whatever measures may be adopted for the attainment of these ends; and further, that I take this oath freely and voluntarily, and without mental reservation. So help me God. Said oath being prima facie evidence, subject to be disapproved by other testimony. 6. Resolved , That the polls be opened at the county seat, or some other suitable place in each county, and the ballot-box be so guarded and protected as to secure to electors a free, fair, and impartial election, and that polls also be opened for the convenience of the soldiers, at such places as may be accessible to them. And whereas, it further appears from the proceedings of said Convention, ``That the Military Governor of the State of Tennessee is requested to execute the foregoing resolutions in such manner as he may think best subserves the interests of the Government.'' And whereas I, Andrew Johnson, Military Governor of the State of Tennessee, being anxious to co-operate with the loyal people of the State, and to encourage them in all laudable efforts to restore the State to law and order again, and to secure the ballot-box against the contamination of treason by every reasonable restraint that can be thrown around it, I do therefore order and direct that an election for President and Vice President of the United States of America be opened and held at the county seat, or other suitable place in every county in the State of Tennessee, upon the first Tuesday after the first Monday in the month of November next, at which all citizens and soldiers, being free white men, twenty-one years of age, citizens of the United States, and for six months prior to the election citizens of the State of Tennessee, who have qualified themselves by registration, and who take the oath prescribed in the foregoing resolutions, shall be entitled to vote, unless said oath shall be disproved by other testimony, for the candidates for President and Vice President of the United States. And to the end that the foregoing resolutions, which are made part of this proclamation, may be faithfully executed, and the local citizens of the State, and none others, be permitted to exercise the right of suffrage I do hereby appoint the several gentlemen whose names are affixed to this proclamation, to aid in said election, and superintend the registration of the loyal voters in their respective counties, as provided by the fourth resolution above quoted. But as the day of election is near at hand, and there may be a difficulty in completing the registration within the time limited, it is not intended that the registration be an indispensable prerequisite to the qualification of the voter; and in such cases, where it is impracticable, and where the voter is of known and established loyalty, he shall be entitled to vote, notwithstanding he may not have registered his name as required by the foregoing resolution. The election shall be opened, conducted, returns made, &c., in all respects as provided by the 4th chapter of the ``Code of Tennessee,'' except so far as the same is modified by this proclamation. But in cases where the County Court fail or neglect to appoint inspectors or judges of election, and there is no sheriff or other civil officer in the county qualified by law to open and hold said election, the registrating agents, hereto appended, may act in his stead, and in all respects discharge the duties imposed in such cases upon sheriffs. In like manner it is declared the duty of the military officers commanding Tennessee regiments, battalions, or detached squads, and surgeons in charge of the hospitals of Tennessee soldiers, to open and hold elections on the day aforesaid, under the same rules and regulations hereinbefore prescribed, and at such suitable places as will be convenient to the soldiers, who are hereby declared entitled to vote without oath or registration. In testimony whereof, I, Andrew Johnson, Military Governor of the State of Tennessee, do hereunto set my hand, and have caused the Great Seal of the State to be affixed at this Department, on the 30th day of September, A.D. 1864. By the Governor: ANDREW JOHNSON. [L. S.] Attest: EDWARD H. EAST, Secretary of State. EAST TENNESSEE COUNTIES. Anderson---John Leinart, Henry Hollaway, John Baker. Bledsoe---William Foster, Frank Bridgeman. Blount---Horace Foster, Stephen Mathis, James Henry, Jr. Bradley---K. Clingam, W. R. Davis, John McPherson, A. J. McCaullie. Campbell---John Preston, Reuben Rogers, Pryor Perkins. Carter---Pleasant Williams, (of Stony Creek,) Elijah Simerly, Jones Smith. Claiborne---Cannady Rodgers, Wm. D. Eppes, Ferney Jones. Cocke---Jacob Reagan, Andrew Huff, Lt. Worthington, Sheriff Smith. Cumberland---James Hamby, Thomas B. Swan, James H. Hamby. Fentress---Henry Williams, Dr. J. D. Hale, David Baty, Rufus Dowdy. Granger---John F. Nov, Anderson Acuff, M. Goldman. Greene---R. C. Carter, Calvin Smith, Anderson W. Walker, James H. Reeves. Hancock---Wm. Gilbert, Elbert Campbell, Isaac Campbell, Capt. Lewis Jarvis. Hamilton---Col. C. C. McCaleb, Abe Pearson, Wash Evans. Hawkins---Wm. D. Kanner, R. G. Wetherland, W. W. Willis. Jefferson---J. Duffell Rankin, Press Swan, Wm. Harris, Duff G. Thornburgh. Johnson---Col. R. R. Butler, Col. Sam Howard, Col. James Grayson. Knox---Capt. Thos. Stephens, Andrew L. Knott, Wm. Hofner, Samuel McCammon. Marion---Alexander Kelley, Robert Ralston, Pleasant Pryor, Wm. Pryor, Esq. McMinn---James M. Henderson, John Mc---, G. W. Ross, F. B. McElwee. Meigs---Wm. Adams, F. J. Mathis, Col. A. Cox, Robert Allen, James Gettys. Monroe---Joseph Divine, Henry Duggan, Daniel Heiskell. Morgan---James Langley, Sr., James Langley, Jr., S. C. Hunnycutt. Overton---Rob't Smith, Anderson Winham, Geo. W. Bowman, Ellison Gussett. Polk---Gen. James Gamble, Col. John Elliot, Charles McClary. Rhea---Capt. J. B. Walker, Wm. H. Lowe, Samuel Lowe. Roane---Joe D. Turner, Wm. Lowery, Wm. M. Alexander, J. Christopher Ables, Allen Robb, Sam. L. Childress. Scott---Balie Putnam, Craven Duncan, James Lay. Seviere---Col. Wm. Pickens, Reuben Hines, David McCroskey, Lemuel Dungan. Sullivan---E. A. Millard, Wm. Mullenax, Esq., Enoch Shipley. Union---James W. Turner, John Bayless, Calvin Monroe. Washington---Calvin Hoes, John Mahoney, B. F. Swingle. Sequatchie---Washington Hurd, Daniel McWilliams, B. F. Smith. MIDDLE TENNESSEE COUNTIES, Bedford---Joseph Thompson, Richard Phillips, Wm. T. Tune, Rob't T. Cannon. Cannon---Hiram Morris, William Barten. Cheatham---Warren Jordan. Coffee---John F. Thomas. Davidson---John Carper, Charles Sayers, Gen. J. Stubblefield, James Warren, T. J. Yarbrough, L. D. Wheeler, P. T. Phillips, J. B. Canfield, James Davis, W. W. Garrett. DeKalb---William Hathaway, Wm. Blackburn, Andrew J. Garrison. Dickson---Marsh Binkley. Franklin--- Giles---J. C. Walker, Edward W. Rose, J. W. Alley, R. J. Gorden. Grundy---William McCran, John Myers. Hickman--- Humphreys---Wm. McKimmons, Wilkins Waggoner, David R. Owen, J. S. Spane, T. J. Winfrey, Mr. Thomas. Jackson---James McKinney, John Gillem, Allen Davis. Lawrence--- Lewis--- Lincoln---J. H. Fulgham, James T. Kirkpatrick. Macon---Pleasant Chitwood, L. S. Clements, Geo. W. Clements. Marshall---A. A. Steele Maury---W. W. Jones, John D. Moore, John H. Campbell. Montgomery---O. M. Blackman, Caleb Jones, D. S. Nye, Isaiah Barbee, Thomas F. Betters, Geo. Hampton. Berry---W. O. Britt, F. M. Brasher, Jackson Taylor, J. S. Webb, A. H. Eathers. Putnam---Joseph Rhea McColet. Robertson---B. F. Aurt, Wiley Woodward, Jos. Starks. Rutherford---Edward Jordan, Wm. Spence, Wm. C. Burt, James H. Carlton. Smith---John W. Bowen, Asberry Griffin, Francis M. McKee. Summer--- Stewart--- Van Buren--- Warren---Samuel Henderson, Dr. J. B. Armstrong, Sam L. Colville, Miles Bonner. White---Edward D. Pennington, Alex. Payne, James Coety Williamson---A. W. Moss, Wm. P. Campbell, Franklin Hardeman, Wm. S. Campbell. Wilson---Wm. Waters, Wm. J. Waters. Wayne---Theodore H. Gibbs, Jas. Dougherty, F. Hall, Jasper Lypert, John Stamps. WEST TENNESSEE COUNTIES Benton---David Brewer, Allen Bearsons, David Little, Abraham Gussett, Sam. Tippett. Carroll---Young W. Allen, John Wood, John Norman, Lucian Hawkins, Isaac Bouch. Dyer---William Wesson. Decatur---John Stegall, Simon Bonman, G. Menzies, James Roberts, W. H. Johnson. Fayette--- Gibson--- Haywood--- Henderson---Robert Kizer, James Hart, James Smith. Hardeman--- Henry---Anderson---, Dr. J. W. Mathewson, Charles White, Temple Cowan. Hardin---Thomas Maxwell, Michell Hood, Bailey Hinkell. Lauderdale--- Madison---T. Skurlock. McNairy---Wm. Scayne, John Barnes,---Gregg. Obion---Dr. S. R. Chapin. Shelby---J. B. Bingham, G. B. Ware, A. Gregg. Tipton--- Weakley ---J. W. Hays, Wm. Bell EXTRACTS FROM CODE OF TENNESSEE.--- CHAPTER 4. Of the Electors of President and Vice President 913. Each congressional district shall be an electoral district, and one Elector shall reside in each of said districts. 914. There shall be two Electors for the State who may reside in any part of the State. 915. Any citizen qualified by law to vote for members of the General Assembly, may vote for the whole number of Electors. 916. Said qualified voters shall meet at the places appointed by law for holding elections in every county, on the first Tuesday next after the first Monday in the month of November, in the years in which the President and Vice President are to be elected, and vote for a number of Electors equal to the whole number of Senators and Representatives to which the State is entitled in Congress. 917. The officer or person holding the election shall advertise at the court house in every county, and in every civil district of the county, the day on which said election shall take place, at least sixty days before the time of holding it. 918. The county court of every county shall appoint judges for every place of voting in the county, all of whom shall be sworn to conduct said election in the manner prescribed for electing members of the General Assembly. 919. If the county court neglect to appoint judges of the said elections, or those appointed refuse to act, the officer holding the election shall appoint judges out of the by-standers to hold the same. 920. [Of clerks and their qualifications.]  921. The election shall be conducted in the manner prescribed for electing members of the General Assembly. [The other sections of this chapter prescribe rules concerning the comparison of polls, statements of same, returns, comparisons of returns, proceedings of Electors, vacancy, time of meeting to vote, certificate of voting, messenger, certificate by mail, lists of electors, and penalties on officers.]  Qualification of Voters for Members of the General Assembly Referred to in Sec. 915 Above . ``Every free white man of the age of twenty-one years, being a citizen of the United States, and a citizen of the county where he may offer his vote, six months next preceding the day of election, shall be entitled to vote for members of the General Assembly.''--- Code, Sec. 833, and Const. of Tenn., Art. 4, Sec. 1 . Plans of Holding Elections, Referred to in Sec. 916, Above . ``The places of holding elections shall be in each civil district, at some convenient locality, to be designated by the county court at least six months before the election, and entered on record.''--- Code 837 . EXTRACTS FROM CODE.---ART. VI. Officers of Popular Elections, Referred to in Sec. 917 Above . 839. The sheriff, or, if he is a candidate, the coroner, or if there be no coroner, some person appointed by the county court, shall hold all popular elections; and said officer or person shall appoint a sufficient number of deputies to hold said elections. 841. The county court, at the session next preceding the day of election, shall appoint three inspectors or judges for each voting place, to superintend the election. 842. If the county court fail to make the appointment, or any person appointed refuse to serve, the sheriff, with the advice of three justices, or, if none be present, three respectable freeholders, shall, before the beginning of the election, appoint said inspectors or judges. 843. If the sheriff, or other officer whose duty it is to attend at a particular place of voting under the foregoing provisions, fail to attend, any justice of the peace present, or, if no justice of the peace be present, any three freeholders may perform the duties prescribed by the preceding sections, or in case of necessity may act as officers or inspectors. At the time these papers were presented as before stated, I had never seen either of them, nor heard of the subject to which they relate, except in a general way, only one day previously. Up to the present moment nothing whatever upon the subject has passed between Governor Johnson or anyone else connected with the proclamation and myself. Since receiving the papers as stated, I have given the subject such brief consideration as I have been able to do in the midst of so many pressing public duties. My conclusion is that I can have nothing to do with the matter, either to sustain the plan as the Convention and Governor Johnson have initiated it, or to revoke or modify it as you demand. By the Constitution and laws the President is charged with no duty in the conduct of a presidential election in any State; nor do I, in this case, perceive any military reason for his interference in the matter. The movement set on foot by the Convention and Governor Johnson does not, as seems to be assumed by you, emanate from the National Executive. In no proper sense can it be considered other than as an independent movement of at least a portion of the loyal people of Tennessee. I do not perceive in the plan any menace of violence or coercion towards any one. Governor Johnson, like any other loyal citizen of Tennessee, has the right to favor any political plan he chooses, and, as Military Governor, it is his duty to keep the peace among and for the loyal people of the State. I cannot discern that by this plan he purposes any more. But you object to the plan. Leaving it alone will be your perfect security against it. It is not proposed to force you into it. Do as you please on your own account peacefully and loyally, and Governor Johnson will not molest you; but will protect you against violence so far as in his power. I presume that the conducting of a Presidential election in Tennessee in strict accordance with the old code of the State is not now a possibility. It is scarcely necessary to add that if any election shall be held, and any votes shall be cast in the State of Tennessee for President and Vice President of the United States, it will belong, not to the military agents, nor yet to the Executive Department, but exclusively to another department of the Government, to determine whether they are entitled to be counted, in conformity with the Constitution and laws of the United States. Except it be to give protection against violence, I decline to interfere in any way with any presidential election. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To James B. Fry

Will the Provost-Marshal General, please see & hear. Capt. Muzzy, for whom it seems is sought a place in the Veteran Reserve Corps. Oct. 22, 1864 A. LINCOLN

Pass for Joseph J. Neave and William Norton
October 22, 1864
These Friends, Joseph J. Neave and William Norton, reside in England and wish to visit the Friends in North Carolina. Allow them to pass, with ordinary baggage, to Gen. Grant's Head Quarters, and by his consent through our lines. A. LINCOLN. Oct. 22, 1864.

To William Price
William Price Office U.S. Military Telegraph, District Attorney War Department, Baltimore, Md Washington, D.C., Oct. 22 1864.
Yours received. Will see you any time when you present yourself. A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for James Hughes
Executive Mansion, Washington, Oct 22, 1864.
James Hughes of Indiana is a worthy gentleman and a friend, whom I wish to oblige. He desires to trade in southern products, and all officers of the Army and Navy and other agents of the government will afford him such protection and such facilities of transportation, and otherwise in such business as can be consistently done with the regulations of trade and with the public service. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Philip H. Sheridan
Executive Mansion Washington, Major General Sheridan Oct. 22. 1864
With great pleasure I tender to you and your brave army, the thanks of the Nation, and my own personal admiration and gratitude, for the month's operations in the Shenandoah Valley; and especially for the splendid work of October 19, 1864. Your Obt. Servt. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 22, 1864
Judge Hughes leaves these letters with me, requesting me to lay them before the Sec. of War, and to state that he Judge Hughes is opposed, in toto to the proposition contained in Davis letters. Oct. 22, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To George H. Thomas
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Thomas War Department, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, D.C., Oct. 23. 1864.
I received information to-day, having great appearance of authenticity, that there is to be rebel raid into Western Kentucky---that it is to consist of four thousand Infantry, and three thousand Cavalry, and is to start from Corinth, Mississippi on the fourth day of November. A. LINCOLN Send copy to Gen. Washburne  at Memphis. A.L.

Pass for Mr. Livingston

Allow the bearer, Mr. Livingston, to have transportation, and pass to Gen. Grant's Head Quarters and return. Oct. 24. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Speech to One Hundred Eighty-Ninth New York Volunteers
October 24, 1864
SOLDIERS: I am exceedingly obliged to you for this mark of respect. It is said that we have the best Government the world ever knew, and I am glad to meet you, the supporters of that Government. To you who render the hardest work in its support should be given the greatest credit. Others who are connected with it, and who occupy higher positions, their duties can be dispensed with, but we cannot get along without your aid. While others differ with the Administration, and, perhaps, honestly, the soldiers generally have sustained it; they have not only fought right, but, so far as could be judged from their actions, they have voted right, and I for one thank you for it. I know you are en route for the front, and therefore do not expect me to detain you long, and will therefore bid you good morning.

To John F. Miller
Executive Mansion Officer in Command at Washington D.C. Nashville, Tenn. Oct. 25, 1864.
Suspend execution of Young C. Edmonson, until further order from me. Answer if you receive this. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Francis T. King

Allow Francis T. King of Baltimore, to pass with the English Friends, through our lines to North Carolina. A. LINCOLN Oct. 25. 1864

To Gilbert P. Robinson
Lieut. Col. Robinson Executive Mansion of 3rd. Maryland Battallion Washington, Near Petersburg, Va. Oct. 25. 1864
Please inform me what is the condition of, and what is being done with, Leut. Charles Saumenig, in your command. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 25, 1864
The bearer, Mr. Alderson, says he has good recommendations, among others, from Senator Henderson, on file at the War Department. If so, I shall be glad for him to get some suitable situation. Oct. 25, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine and report Oct. 26. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Order for Discharge of Big Eagle

Let the Indian ``Big Eagle'' now confined at Davenport, Iowa, be discharged at once. A. LINCOLN Oct. 26. 1864

To Mrs. George W. Swift
Mrs. George W. Swift Executive Mansion, My dear Madam Washington, Oct. 26, 1864
Your complimentary little poem, asking for my autograph was duly received. I thank you for it, and cheerfully comply with your request Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To John R. Underwood and Henry Grider
Hon. J.R Underwood, Executive Mansion Hon. Henry Grider Washington, Oct. 26, 1864
Gentlemen A petition has been presented to me on behalf of certain citizens of Allen and Barren counties in the State of Kentucky assuming that certain sums of money have been assessed and collected from them by the United States Military authorities, to compensate certain Union citizens of the same vicinage, for losses by rebel depredations, and praying that I will order the money to be refunded. The petition is accompanied by a letter of yours, which so presents the case as to induce me to make a brief response. You distinctly admit that the petitioners ``sympathize with the Confederate States & regard them as warring to preserve their Constitutional & legal rights.'' This admitted, it is scarcely possible to believe that they do not help the cause they thus love whenever they conveniently can. Their sons and relatives go into the rebel, but we may not be able to distinctly prove that they out-fitted, and sent them. When armed rebels come among them, their houses and other property are spared; while Union men's houses are burned, and their property pillaged. Still we may not be able to specifically prove that the sympathizers, protected and supplied the raiders in turn, or designated their Union nei[g]hbors for plunder and devastation. Yet we know all this exists even better than we could know an isolated fact upon the sworn testimony of one or two witnesses, just as we better know there is fire whence we see much smoke rising than could know it by one or two witnesses swearing to it. The witnesses may commit perjury, but the smoke can not. Now, experience has already taught us in this war that holding these smoky localities responsible for the conflagrations within them has a very salutary effect. It was obviously so in and about St. Louis, and on Eastern Shore of Virginia.

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Executive Mansion Major General Burbridge Washington, Oct. 27, 1864
It is represented to me that an officer has, by your authority, assessed and collected considerable sums of money from citizens of Allen and Barren counties, Kentucky, to compensate Union men for depredations committed upon them in the vicinity by rebels; and I am petitioned to order the money to be refunded. At most I could not do this without hearing both sides, which, as yet, I have not. I write now to say, that, in my opinion, in some extreme cases, this class of proceedings becomes a necessity; but that it is liable to---almost inseparable from---great abuses, and therefore should only be sparingly resorted to, and be conducted with great caution; that you, in your department, must be the judge of the proper localities and occasions for applying it; and that it will be well for you to see that your subordinates be at all times ready to account for every dollar, as to why collected, of whom, and how applied. Without this, you will soon find some of them making assessments and collections merely to put money in their own pockets, and it will also be impossible to correct errors in future and better times. In the case I have mentioned, such good men as Hon. J. R. Underwood & Hon. Henry Grider though not personally interested, have appealed to me in behalf of others. So soon as you can, consistently with your other duties, I will thank you to acquaint yourself with the particulars of this case, and make any correction which may seem to be proper. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the services of this applicant can be made useful, I shall be glad for him to be appointed. A. LINCOLN Oct. 27. 1864

To Albert G. Hodges
Hon. A G. Hodges Executive Mansion Frankfort, Ky. Washington, Oct. 28, 1864
Mrs. Margaret C. Price, is here asking that her son, Philemon B. Price, now a prisoner of war at Camp Chase, may be discharged, and I have told [her] I will do it if you say so. What say you? A. LINCOLN

To John A. Prall
J. A. Prall, Executive Mansion Paris, Ky Washington, Oct. 28. 1864
Mrs. George W. Bowen, is here asking for the discharge of her husband, now a prisoner of war, at Camp Chase, and I have told her I will do it if you say so. What say you? A. LINCOLN

To S. Austin Allibone
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dear Sir, October 29th, 1864.
Mr Everetts address of 19th. inst. which you so kindly sent, has been received, and you will please accept my thanks. Your ob't. serv't A. LINCOLN. S. Austin Allibone Esq Philadelphia, Pa

To Edward Bates

Will the Attorney General please have a report made on this case. Oct. 29. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Thomas Berington
October 29, 1864
I do not think a man offering himself a volunteer when he could receive a bounty & being rejected for disability should afterwards be compelled to serve without bounty as a drafted man. Let this man be discharged. A. LINCOLN Oct. 29, 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
October 29, 1864
As the resignation of officers is not likely to become a great evil, let this resignation be accepted on the usual condition of settling accounts. A. LINCOLN Oct. 29. 1864

To Isaac S. Burrell

I shall be pleased to see Col. Burrell and his Regiment, at the time and place within indicated. A. LINCOLN Oct. 30. 1864.

To Alexander K. McClure
`` Cypher '' Executive Mansion Hon. A. K. McClure Washington, Harrisburg, Pa. Oct. 30. 1864
I would like to hear from you. A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Please file & remind me, at next Territorial Judge appointment. Oct. 31. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Thomas T. Davis
Hon. Thos. T. Davis Executive Mansion Syracuse, N.Y. Washington, D.C. Oct. 31. 1864
I have ordered that Milton D. Norton be discharged on taking the oath. Please notify his mother. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas H. Hicks or Francis S. Corkran

If Gov Hicks or Francis Corcoran, will request it in writing, I will allow this lady and family to return home. A. LINCOLN Oct. 31. 1864

To William Nast
Executive Mansion, Washington, Reverend & Dear Sir: October 31st, 1864.
It is with feelings of cordial gratification, that I acknowledge the reception of your communication of the 20th. of October, covering the Resolutions of the Central German Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, adopted at their recent session. I have not been unprepared for this definite and unequivocal statement of the continued loyalty and devotion of the Church you represent, to the free institutions of the country of your adoption. The conduct of your people since the outbreak of this desolating rebellion, has been the best proof of the sincerity of your present professions. I trust it is not too early for us to rejoice together over the promise of the speedy removal of that blot upon our civilization, always heretofore a standing menace to our peace and liberties, whose destruction, so long desired by all friends of impartial freedom, has at last been rendered possible by the crimes of its own reckless friends I am very truly, Your obedient servant, Reverend William Nast A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Admitting Nevada into the Union
October 31, 1864
By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation: Whereas the Congress of the United States passed an Act which was approved on the 21st. day of March, last, entitled, ``An Act to enable the people of Nevada to form a Constitution and State Government, and for the admission of such State into the Union on an equal Footing with the original States''; And whereas, the said Constitution and State Government have been formed pursuant to the conditions prescribed by the fifth section of the Act of Congress aforesaid, and the certificate required by the said act, and also a copy of the Constitution and ordinances have been submitted to the President of the United States; Now, therefore, be it known that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, in accordance with the duty imposed upon me by the Act of Congress aforesaid, do, hereby, declare and proclaim that the said State of Nevada is admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the original States. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington this Thirty first day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty four, and of the Independence of the United States the Eighty ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

Speech to Forty-second Massachusetts Regiment
October 31, 1864
You have completed a term of service in the cause of your country, and on behalf of the nation and myself I thank you. You are going home; I hope you will find all your friends well. I never see a Massachusetts regiment but it reminds me of the difficulty a regiment from that State met with on its passage through Baltimore; but the world has moved since then, and I congratulate you upon having a better time to-day in Baltimore than that regiment had. To-night, midnight, slavery ceases in Maryland, and this state of things in Maryland is due greatly to the soldiers. Again I thank you for the services you have rendered the country.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Oct. 31, 1864.
Herewith is a letter of Gov. Curtin which speaks for itself. I suggest, for your consideration, whether, to the extent of, say, five thousand, we might not exempt from the draft, upon the men being put in good shape to defend & give assurance to the border. I have not said even this much to the bearer, Gen. Todd,  whom I hope you will see & hear. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates

Atty General, please make out a pardon in this case. Nov. 1. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To John A. Dix
Major General Dix Executive Mansion New-York. Washington, Nov. 1. 1864
Please suspend execution of private P. Carroll until further order. Acknowledge receipt. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning H. Warren Stimson

West-Point. I wish this ``soldier boy'' to have a chance. A. LINCOLN Nov. 1. 1864

To Albert Hobbs
Hon. A. Hobbs. Executive Mansion Malone, N.Y. Washington, Nov. 1. 1864
Where is Nathan Wilcox, of whom you telegraph, to be found? A LINCOLN

Order for Discharge of Kentuckians
[c. November 1, 1864]
Let the following named prisoners of war, take the oath of Dec. 8, 1863, and be discharged. Josiah Gentry--- 	at Camp Douglas, Archibald W. Kavanaugh, 	`` `` John W. Mitchell,	`` `` Jonathan D. Jones.	`` `` Roger X. Quisenberry 	Camp. Chase. William T. Simmons. 	Camp. Douglas. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
November 1, 1864
If the Sec. of the Navy can find employment for this gentleman in the capacity stated, I will discharge [him] from the service under the draft, so that he may go into the other service. Nov. 1. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Genl. Grant Executive Mansion City-Point Washington, Nov. 2. 1864
Suspend until further [order]  the execution of Nathan Wilcox, of 22nd. Mass. Regt. Fifth Corps, said to be at Repair Depot. A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

If a report is made in the case of Wm. Stretch, please send the papers to me. A. LINCOLN Nov. 2, 1864

To Henry J. Raymond and William K. Strong
Hon. H. J. Raymond & Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gen. W. K. Strong War Department, New-York Washington, D.C., Nov. 2. 1864.
Telegraphed Gen. Dix last night to suspend execution of P. Carroll, and have his answer that the order is received by him. A. LINCOLN.

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Officer in command at Executive Mansion Lexington, K Washington, Nov. 3. 1864
Suspend execution of Vance Mason until further order. Acknowledge receipt. A LINCOLN

To William P. Fessenden

Will the Sec. of the Treasury & Mr. Risley please give Dr. Roe a hearing. His object is certainly a worthy one. A. LINCOLN Nov. 3. 1864

To George G. Meade
Executive Mansion Washington, Major General Meade Nov. 3, 1864
Suspend execution of Samuel J. Smith, and George Brown, alias George Rock, until further order & send record. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

This man wants to go home to vote. Sec. of War please see him Nov. 3. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Approval of First Hundred Miles of Union Pacific Railroad
Executive Mansion November 4th 1864.
The permanent location of the Union Pacific Railroad, for one hundred miles west from Omaha, Nebraska, as shown by the map thereof certified by the President and Secretary of said Company, Oct. 19, 1864, is hereby approved. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Major General Burbridge Executive Mansion, Lexington, Ky Washington, Nov. 4, 1864.
Suspend execution of all the deserters ordered to be executed on Sunday at Louisville, until further order, and send me the records in the cases. Acknowledge receipt. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please procure record & papers & report on this case. A. LINCOLN Nov. 4. 1864

Memorandum
[c. November 4, 1864]
For the Message Mrs. Hutter suggests that there be four Assylums in each State, aid by the General Government, for the orphans & perhaps the other destitute of the war.

Order Concerning Prisoners from Coles County, Illinois
November 4, 1864.
Let these prisoners be sent back to Coles County, Ill., those indicted be surrendered to the sheriff of said county, and the others be discharged. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 4, 1864
I really wish Mrs. Hutter to be obliged in this case. She is one of the very best friends of the soldiers. Honorable Secretary of War please see her. A. LINCOLN. Nov. 4, 1864.

To Caleb H. Carlton
Officer in command at Executive Mansion Chattanooga, Tenn. Washington, Nov. 5, 1864
Suspend execution of Robert W. Reed until further order & send record. Answer. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. W. H. Seward Executive Mansion Auburn, New-York Washington, Nov. 5. 1864
No news of consequence this morning. A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Capt. Shindel will report to Gen. W. T. Sherman instead of to Gen. Canby as within directed. A. LINCOLN. Nov. 5, 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 5, 1864
I think this might lie over till morning. The tendency of the order, it seems to me, is to bring on a collision with the State authority, which I would rather avoid, at least until the necessity for it is more apparant than it yet is. A. LINCOLN Nov. 5. 1864

To Charlotte B. Wise
Executive Mansion, Washington, My dear Mrs. Wise Nov. 5. 1864.
It gives me pleasure to comply with your request. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Edward R. S. Canby
``Cypher'' Executive Mansion Major General Canby Washington, New-Orleans, La. Nov. 6. 1864
Please forward, with all possible despatch, to the Naval-Officer commanding at Mobile Bay, the following order. A. LINCOLN. ``Naval Officer in command at Executive Mansion Mobile Bay. Washington, Nov. 6, 1864 Do not, on any account, or on any showing of authority whatever, from whomsoever purporting to come, allow the blockade to be violated. A. LINCOLN''

To David G. Farragut
Naval Officer in command at Executive Mansion, Mobile Bay Washington, Nov. 6. 1864.
Do not, on any account, or on any showing of authority whatever, from whomsoever purporting to come, allow the blockade to be violated. A. LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. W. H. Seward War Department, Auburn, N. Y. Washington, D.C., Nov. 6. 1864.
Nothing of much importance. Day-before-yesterday rebels destroyed two more of our wooden gun-boats, at Johnsonville, on Tennessee River. Curtis, on the 4th., was at Fayetteville, Ark. still pursuing and damaging Price. Richmond papers say Yankees landed at Escambia Bay, below Hilton  (not far from Mobile) captured fifty men, and destroyed all camp equipage, wagons Saltworks, &c and every thing in and about Hilton. Richmond papers also confirm the destruction of the Albemarle & the consequent evacuation of Plymouth N.C. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

Let this appointment be made if there is a vacancy. Nov 7, 1864. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning James W. Hughlett

Treat him with mercy as he makes the disclosure himself. Nov. 7. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning A. W. White
November 7, 1864
Lieut. A. W. White is allowed a leave of absence of five days from date, with pass & transportation to Philadelphia & back to Washington A. LINCOLN Nov. 7. 1864

To Ethan A. Hitchcock

Will Gen. Hitchcock please see & hear this lady about a special exchange A. LINCOLN Nov. 8, 1864

To the Managing Committee of the Sailors' Fair
The Managing Committee Executive Mansion, of the Sailor's Fair: Washington, Boston, Mass. Nov. 8, 1864.
Allow me to wish you a great success. With the old fame of the Navy, made brighter in the present war, you can not fail. I name none, lest I wrong others by omission. To all, from Rear Admiral, to honest Jack I tender the Nation's admiration and gratitude A. LINCOLN

Response to a Serenade
November 8, 1864
FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CITIZENS: Even before I had been informed by you that this compliment was paid me by loyal citizens of Pennsylvania friendly to me, I had inferred that you were of that portion of my countrymen who think that the best interests of the nation are to be subserved by the support of the present Administration. I do not pretend to say that you who think so embrace all the patriotism and loyalty of the country. But I do believe, and I trust, without personal interest, that the welfare of the country does require that such support and indorsement be given. I earnestly believe that the consequences of this day's work, if it be as you assure me and as now seems probable, will be to the lasting advantage, if not to the very salvation, of the country. I cannot at this hour say what has been the result of the election; but, whatever it may be, I have no desire to modify this opinion---that all who have labored to-day in behalf of the Union organization, have wrought for the best interests of their country and the world, not only for the present, but for all future ages. I am thankful to God for this approval of the people. But while deeply grateful for this mark of their confidence in me, if I know my heart, my gratitude is free from any taint of personal triumph. I do not impugn the motives of any one opposed to me. It is no pleasure to me to triumph over any one; but I give thanks to the Almighty for this evidence of the people's resolution to stand by free government and the rights of humanity.

To Alexander H. Rice
Hon. A. H. Rice Executive Mansion, Boston, Mass Washington, Nov. 8, 1864.
Yours received. I have no other notice that the ox is mine. If it be really so I present it to the Sailors Fair, as a contribution. A LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. W. H. Seward War Department, Auburn, N.Y. Washington, D.C., Nov. 8. 1864.
News from Grant, Sherman, Thomas and Rosecrans, satisfactory, but not important. Pirate Florida captured by the Wauchusetts [ Wachusett ] Oct. 7th. on coast of Brazil. The information is certain. A. LINCOLN

To Timothy P. Andrews
November 9, 1864
This poor soldier is in distress because he can get no pay. Will Pay Master-General, please have him put on the right track to get his pay. A. LINCOLN Nov. 9, 1864

To Charles Butler
Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, Nov. 9, 1864.
I have received your letter of the 5th November, and beg to express my regret that it will not be possible to avail myself of your courteous invitation. Praying that you will present to your distinguished guest the assurance of my high regard, I am, very truly, Your obedient servant, A. LINCOLN. Charles Butler, Esq., 13 East 14th St., N.Y.

To Benjamin B. French

If Commissioner of Public Buildings chooses to give laborers at White House a holiday I have no objections. A. LINCOLN. November 9, 1864.

To Anson G. Henry
November 9, 1864
With returns and States of which we are confident, the re-election of the President is considered certain, while it is not certain that McClellan has carried any State, though the chances are that he has carried New Jersey and Kentucky.

To Edward Bates

Attorney General please comply with this request. A. LINCOLN Nov. 10. 1864

To Thomas E. Bramlette
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Bramlette War Department, Frankfort, Ky. Washington, D.C., Nov. 10 1864.
Yours of yesterday received. I can scarcely believe that Gen. Jno. B. Houston has been arrested ``for no other offence than opposition to my re-election'' for if that had been deemed sufficient cause of arrest, I should have heard of more than one arrest in Kentucky on election day. If however, Gen. Houston has been arrested for no other cause than opposition to my re-election Gen. Burbridge will discharge him at once, I sending him a copy of this as an order to that effect. A. LINCOLN.

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Burbridge War Department, Lexington, Ky. Washington, D.C., Nov. 10. 1864.
I have just received a telegram from Gov. Bramlette saying ``Genl. Jno. B. Houston, a loyal man and prominent citizen was arrested and yesterday started off by Gen. Burbridge to be sent beyond our lines by way of Catlettsburg for no other offence than opposition to your re-election'' and I have answered him as follows below, of which please take notice and report to me. A LINCOLN

To William Dennison

Will the Post-Master General please see the bearer, Miss. Brady, daughter of and [ sic ] old friend and oblige her, if possible. Nov. 10. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Henry W. Hoffman
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, H. W. Hoffman War Department, Baltimore, Md. Washington, D.C., Nov. 10 1864.
The Maryland soldiers in the Army of the Potomac cast a total vote of 1428, out of which we get 1160 majority. This is directly from Gen. Meade and Gen. Grant. A LINCOLN

To Timothy Ingraham

Suspend execution of the order in the case of Brintnall, until the Judge Advocate General shall have reported to the President. Nov. 10, 1864. A. LINCOLN

Response to a Serenade
November 10, 1864
It has long been a grave question whether any government, not too strong for the liberties of its people, can be strong enough to maintain its own existence, in great emergencies. On this point the present rebellion brought our republic to a severe test; and a presidential election occurring in regular course during the rebellion added not a little to the strain. If the loyal people, united , were put to the utmost of their strength by the rebellion, must they not fail when divided , and partially paralized, by a political war among themselves? But the election was a necessity. We can not have free government without elections; and if the rebellion could force us to forego, or postpone a national election, it might fairly claim to have already conquered and ruined us. The strife of the election is but human-nature practically applied to the facts of the case. What has occurred in this case, must ever recur in similar cases. Human-nature will not change. In any future great national trial, compared with the men of this, we shall have as weak, and as strong; as silly and as wise; as bad and good. Let us, therefore, study the incidents of this, as philosophy to learn wisdom from, and none of them as wrongs to be revenged. But the election, along with its incidental, and undesirable strife, has done good too. It has demonstrated that a people's government can sustain a national election, in the midst of a great civil war. Until now it has not been known to the world that this was a possibility. It shows also how sound , and how strong we still are. It shows that, even among candidates of the same party, he who is most devoted to the Union, and most opposed to treason, can receive most of the people's votes. It shows also, to the extent yet known, that we have more men now, than we had when the war began. Gold is good in its place; but living, brave, patriotic men, are better than gold. But the rebellion continues; and now that the election is over, may not all, having a common interest, re-unite in a common effort, to save our common country? For my own part I have striven, and shall strive to avoid placing any obstacle in the way. So long as I have been here I have not willingly planted a thorn in any man's bosom. While I am deeply sensible to the high compliment of a re-election; and duly grateful, as I trust, to Almighty God for having directed my countrymen to a right conclusion, as I think, for their own good, it adds nothing to my satisfaction that any other man may be disappointed or pained by the result. May I ask those who have not differed with me, to join with me, in this same spirit towards those who have? And now, let me close by asking three hearty cheers for our brave soldiers and seamen and their gallant and skilful commanders.

To William S. Rosecrans
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Rosecrans War Department, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, D.C., Nov. 10 1864.
Suspend execution of Major Wolf until further order, & meanwhile, report to me on the case. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
[November 10, 1864]
I have a despatch from Chicago as follows: ``Arnold, Farnsworth, Washburne, Lovejoy & Norton, republicans elected. 4th. & 7th. Districts in doubt. In 8th. Swett probably defeated. Other five Districts Democrats elected. Ingersoll, Republican candidate at large probably elected, but vote close.'' LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 10, 1864
This lady would be appointed Chaplain of the First Wisconsin Heavy Artillery, only that she is a woman. The President has not legally anything to do with such a question, but has no objection to her appointment. A. LINCOLN.

Discharge for Richard H. Lee
Executive Mansion, Washington, [November 11], 186.
Richard Henry Lee Private 1st. Rebel Maryland Artillery Prisoner at Fort Delaware Division 20. (said to be sick) Let this man take the oath of Dec. 8. 1863. and be discharged. Nov. 11. 1864 A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Furlough for H. P. Morley

If consistent I would be glad for this to be done A. LINCOLN Nov. 11. 1864

To David G. Farragut
Executive Mansion, Washington, November 11, 1864.
An Executive order to Rear-Admiral David G. Farragut having been issued on the 9th of August last, directing that, if Andrew J. Hamilton, or any person authorized in writing by him, should come out of either of the ports of Galveston or Sabine Pass with any vessel or vessels freighted with cotton shipped to the agent of the Treasury Department at New Orleans, the passage of such person, vessels, and cargoes should not be molested or hindered, but should be permitted to pass to the hands of such consignee, the said order is from this date to be considered as revoked. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Endorsement
[c. November 12, 1864]
Hon. John A. Bingham brings this to me.

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion, Washington, Judge Advocate General Nov. 12. 1864.
Please procure record, & examine and report, upon the case of---Stettler, convicted & sent to Auburn Penitentiary for five years. His home was in Philadelphia, and his trial was here in Washington, on some charge about adulterated coffee. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please report on this case. A. LINCOLN Nov. 12. 1864

To John A. Logan
Executive Mansion Major Genl. John A. Logan Washington, Carbondale, Ills. Nov. 12. 1864
Yours of to-day just received. Some days ago I forwarded to the care of Mr. Washburne, a leave for you to visit Washington, subject only to be countermanded by General Sherman. This qualification I thought was a necessary prudence for all concerned. Subject to it, you may remain at home thirty days, or come here, at your own option. If, in view of maintaining your good relations with Gen. Sherman, and of probable movements of his army, you can safely come here, I shall be very glad to see you. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Concerning John C. Lewis
Executive Mansion, Washington, Nov 12. 1864.
Whenever proper evidence shall be brought to me along with this paper that a substitute has been procured, received and duly mustered in, in place of John C. Lewis, private in Company B. 188th. Regt. N. Y. Vols. I will will [sic] discharge the latter. Nov. 12. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Marsena R. Patrick
Executive Mansion, Gen. Patrick Washington, Nov. 12. 1864.
Please oblige me by seeing and hearing the bearer, Lt. Col. Kretschmar, who is well vouched to me as a most worthy gentleman, and who wishes to see you on business. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edward Bates
Attorney General Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Nov. 14, 1864.
Please allow Hon. Mr. Corwin to have a copy of your legal opinion, given me, in the case of Col. Gates. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

Charge of desertion removed, restoring such rights, if any, as were thereby cut off. A. LINCOLN Nov. 14, 1864

Extension of Leave for Nathaniel P. Banks

This leave of absence is extended indefinitely, and until further order. A. LINCOLN Nov. 14. 1864.

To Stephen A. Hurlbut
Private Executive Mansion
Major General Hurlbut Washington, Nov. 14. 1864
Few things, since I have been here, have impressed me more painfully than what, for four or five months past, has appeared as bitter military opposition to the new State Government of Louisiana. I still indulged some hope that I was mistaken in the fact; but copies of a correspondence on the subject, between Gen. Canby and yourself, and shown me to-day, dispel that hope. A very fair proportion of the people of Louisiana have inaugerated a new State Government, making an excellent new constitution---better for the poor black man than we have in Illinois. This was done under military protection, directed by me, in the belief, still sincerely entertained, that with such a nucleous around which to build, we could get the State into position again sooner than otherwise. In this belief a general promise of protection and support, applicable alike to Louisiana and other states, was given in the last annual message. During the formation of the new government and constitution, they were supported by nearly every loyal person and opposed by every secessionist. And this support, and this opposition, from the respective stand points of the parties, was perfectly consistent and logical. Every Unionist ought to wish the new government to succeed; and every disunionist must desire it to fail. It's failure would gladden the heart of Slidell in Europe, and of every enemy of the old flag in the world. Every advocate of slavery naturally desires to see blasted, and crushed, the liberty promised the black man by the new constitution. But why Gen. Canby and Gen. Hurlbut should join on the same side is to me incomprehensible. Of course, in the condition of things at New-Orleans, the military must not be thwarted by the civil authority; but when the constitutional convention, for what it deems a breach of previlege, arrests an editor, in no way connected with the military, the military necessity for insulting the Convention, and forcibly discharging the editor, is difficult to perceive.  Neither is the military necessity for protecting the people against paying large salaries, fixed by a Legislature of their own choosing, very apparant. Equally difficult to perceive is the military necessity for forcibly interposing to prevent a bank from loaning it's own money to the State. These things, if they have occurred, are, at the best, no better than gratuitous hostility. I wish I could hope that they may be shown to not have occurred. To make assurance against misunderstanding, I repeat that in the existing condition of things in Louisiana, the military must not be thwarted by the civil authority; and I add that on points of difference the commanding general must be judge and master. But I also add that in the exercise of this judgment and control, a purpose, obvious, and scarcely unavowed, to transcend all military necessity, in order to crush out the civil government, will not be overlooked. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. Mary A. Stevens

Allow this lady, Mrs. Stevenss,  to pass our lines, with ordinary baggage only, and go to Houston, Texas. A. LINCOLN Nov. 14. 1864.

To Samuel A. Cony and Others
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, The Governor of Maine War Department, Augusta, Me. Washington, D.C., Nov. 15 1864.
Please send, as soon as practicable, exactly, or approximately, the aggregate of votes cast in your State at the late election. It is desired with reference to the forthcoming Message. A LINCOLN Saml Cony Gov of Maine Augusta Me Jos. A. Gilmore Gov of N.H. Concord NH. Jno Gregory Smith Govr of Vermont Montpelier Vt. John A. Andrew Govr of Massachusetts Boston Mass Jas Y. Smith Gov of Rhode Island Providence R I. Wm. A. Buckingham Govr of Connecticut Hartford Conn. Horatio Seymour Govr of New York Albany N.Y. Joel Parker Gov of New Jersey Trenton N.J. A. G. Curtin Gov. of Penna Harrisburg Pa. Wm. Cannon Gov of Delaware Dover Del A. W. Bradford Govr of Maryland Annapolis A. I. Boreman Govr West Va. Wheeling Va Andrew Johnson Mil Govr of Tenn Nashville Tenn Thos. E. Bramlette Gov of Kentucky Lexington Ky. John Brough Govr of Ohio Columbus O. Austin Blair Gov of Michigan Lansing Mich O. P. Morton Gov of Indiana Indianapolis Ind Richard Yates Govr of Illinois Springfield Ill Willard P Hall Lt Govr of Missouri Jefferson City Mo Wm. M. Stone Gov of Iowa Des Moines Iowa James T. Lewis Govr of Wisconsin Madison Wis Stephen Miller Govr of Minnesota St Paul Minn Thomas Carney Govr of Kansas Leavenworth Kan Frederick F. Low Govr of California Sacramento Cal Jas W. Nye Govr of Nevada Carson City Nevada Maj Gen J. E. Steele  Little Rock Ark Michael Hahn Govr of Louisiana New Orleans via Cairo

To Jesse K. Dubois
Hon J K. Dubois, Washn., Nov. 15, 1864.
Springfield Ills. Yours of today asking that (530) five hundred and thirty men may be assigned to the 32d. Illinois shall be attended to. You say ``State gone twenty five thousand.'' Which way did it go? How stand the members of congress and the other officers A. LINCOLN.

To William P. Fessenden and Hanson A. Risley

Will the secretary of the Treasury and Mr. Risley please see & hear the bearer, Mr McBernie A LINCOLN Nov. 15. 1864

To Ethan A. Hitchcock

Will Gen. Hitchcock please see the bearer, Mrs. Gimber. Nov. 15, 1864. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Alfred Everson
Executive Mansion, Washington, 15th November, 1864.
It is hereby ordered that the sentence of Acting Master Alfred Everson, of the Navy of the United States, convicted by Court Martial of assault with intent to kill James O'Neill, a fireman on board the captured blockade runner, Nicholas 1st, be so far mitigated as to allow him the freedom of the prison where he is confined, on condition of good behaviour on his part, as a prisoner. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To William H. Purnell
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, W.H. Purnell, War Department, Baltimore, Md. Washington, D.C., Nov. 15 1864.
I shall be happy to receive the committee on Thursday morning (17th.) as you propose. A. LINCOLN

To George H. Thomas
Cypher Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Thomas War Department, Nashville. Tenn. Washington, D.C., Nov. 15. 1864.
How much force and Artillery had Gillem? A LINCOLN

Pardon
November 16, 1864
Upon rejoining his regiment as soon as practicable & faithfully serving out his term, this man is pardoned for any overstaying of time or desertion heretofore committed. A. LINCOLN Nov. 16. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
November 16, 1864
Hon. Sec. of War please see Mr. Gear, on the question of furnishing some small arm amunition to loyal people in Northern Alabama. A. LINCOLN Nov. 16. 1864

To Edward Bates

Pardon, for unexecuted part of sentence. Nov. 17, 1864 A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Arthur Taylor

Let this man be paroled for sixty days from this date. Nov. 17, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

To William P. Fessenden

In addition to what is within said, I know Mr. Scovel to be one of our best friends. Will the Sec. of Treasury please see him. Nov. 17, 1864 A. LINCOLN.

Reply to Maryland Union Committee
November 17, 1864
The President, in reply, said: ``He had to confess that he was fully notified of the intention thus kindly to call upon him, and by that means he had a fair opportunity offered to be ready with a set speech; but he had not prepared one, having been very busy with his public duties; therefore, he could only speak as the thoughts might occur to him. He would not attempt to conceal from them the fact that he was gratified at the results of the Presidential election, and he would assure them that he had kept as near as he could to the exercise of his best judgment, for the promotion of the interests of the whole country; and now, to have the seal of approbation marked on the course he had pursued was exceedingly gratifying to his feelings. He might go further and say that, in as large proportion as any other man, his pleasure consisted in the belief that the policy he had pursued would be the best and the only one that could save the country. He had said before, and would now repeat, that he indulged in no feeling of triumph over any one who thought or acted differently from himself. He had no such feeling towards any living man. ``When he thought of Maryland in particular, it was that the people had more than double their share in what had occurred in the elections. He thought the adoption of their free State constitution was a bigger thing than their part in the Presidential election. He could, any day, have stipulated to lose Maryland in the Presidential election to save its free constitution, because the Presidential election comes every four years and the adoption of the constitution, being a good thing, could not be undone. He therefore thought in that they had a victory for the right worth a great deal more than their part in the Presidential election, although he thought well of that. He once before said, and would now say again, that those who had differed from us and opposed us would see that it was better for their own good that they had been defeated, rather than to have been successful. Thanking them for their compliment, he said he would bring to a close that short speech.''

To William H. Seward

Livingston What says the Sec. of State to within? A. LINCOLN Nov. 17, 1864

Endorsement Concerning John T. Cox
[c. November 18, 1864]
No particular controversy

Proclamation Concerning Blockade
November 19, 1864
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, by my Proclamation of the nineteenth of April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty one, it was declared that the ports of certain States including those of Norfolk, in the State of Virginia, Fernandina and Pensacola, in the State of Florida, were, for reasons therein set forth, intended to be placed under blockade; and whereas the said ports were subsequently blockaded accordingly, but having, for some time past, been in the military possession of the United States, it is deemed advisable that they should be opened to domestic and foreign commerce: Now, therefore, be it known that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, pursuant to the authority in me vested by the fifth section of the act of Congress, approved on the 13th. of July 1861, entitled ``An act further to provide for the collection of duties on imports and for other purposes,'' do hereby declare that the blockade of the said ports of Norfolk, Fernandina and Pensacola, shall so far cease and determine from and after the first day of December next that commercial intercourse with those ports, except as to persons, things and information contraband of war, may, from that time, be carried on, subject to the laws of the United States, to the limitations and in pursuance of the regulations which may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and to such military and naval regulations as are now in force or may hereafter be found necessary. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington, this nineteenth day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty four, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To William S. Rosecrans
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Rosecrans. Nov. 19, 1864.
A Major Wolf, as it seems, was under sentence, in your Department, to be executed in retaliation for the murder of a Major Wilson; and I, without any particular knowledge of the facts, was induced by appeals for mercy, to order the suspension of his execution until further order. Understanding that you so desire, this letter places the case again within your control, with the remark only that I wish you to do nothing merely for revenge, but that what you may do, shall be solely done with reference to the security of the future. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Alfred Sully
Officer in command at Executive Mansion, Davenport, Iowa. Washington, Nov. 19. 1864.
Let the Indian ``Big Eagle'' be discharged. I ordered this some time ago. A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Lydia Bixby
Executive Mansion, Washington, Nov. 21, 1864.
Dear Madam,---I have been shown in the files of the War Department a statement of the Adjutant General of Massachusetts, that you are the mother of five sons who have died gloriously on the field of battle. I feel how weak and fruitless must be any words of mine which should attempt to beguile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. But I cannot refrain from tendering to you the consolation that may be found in the thanks of the Republic they died to save. I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement, and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn pride that must be yours, to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of Freedom. Yours, very sincerely and respectfully, A. LINCOLN. Mrs. Bixby.

To William P. Fessenden
November 21, 1864
Hon. Secretary of the Treasury please see & hear Hon. Mr. Allen who will present this. Mr. Allen's representations may be safely relied on; and if the removal he seeks shall be made, I personally know that a better man can not be found for the vacancy than Joseph G. Bowman. In fact I should dislike to appoint any other, he being an applicant A. LINCOLN Nov. 21. 1864

To John Phillips
Executive Mansion. Washington, My dear Sir 21st. November, 1864
I have heard of the incident at the polls in your town, in which you bore so honored a part, and I take the liberty of writing to you to express my personal gratitude for the compliment paid me by the suffrage of a citizen so venerable. The example of such devotion to civic duties in one whose days have already extended an average life time beyond the Psalmist's limit, cannot but be valuable and fruitful. It is not for myself only, but for the country which you have in your sphere served so long and so well, that I thank you. Your friend and Servant A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the service can be useful let the appointment be made. Nov. 21, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, November 21, 1864.
My dear Sir: I now propose that Smithson and Yocum, respectively, be enlarged, allowing their sentences to stand as security for their good behavior---that is, not pardon them, but if they misbehave, re-arrest and imprison them on the old score. Also, I think if Waring's premises down in Maryland are [not]  FOOTNOTES}>(2) in use by the government, he and his family might be allowed to re-occupy them. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

If another Commissary is needed, let this gentleman be appointed. A. LINCOLN. Nov. 21, 1864.

To Augustus R. Wright
Hon. A. R. Wright Executive Mansion, Louisville, Ky. Washington, Nov. 21, 1864.
Admitting that your cotton was destroyed by the Federal Army, I do not suppose any-thing could be done for you now. Congress has appropriated no money for that class of claims, and will not, I expect, while the active war lasts. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas E. Bramlette
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Bramlette War Department, Frankfort, Ky. Washington, D.C., Nov. 22 1864.
Yours of to-day received. It seems that Lt. Gov. Jacobs & Col. Wolford are stationary now. Gen. Sudarth & Mr. Hodges are here & the Secretary of War, and myself are trying to devise means of pacification and harmony for Kentucky, which we hope to effect soon, now that the passion-exciting subject of the election is past. A. LINCOLN.

To Robert N. McLaren
War Department Officer in command at Washington City, Fort-Snelling, Minn. Nov. 24, 1864
Suspend execution of Patrick Kelly, John Lennor [ sic ], Joel H. Eastwood, Thomas J. Murray, and Hoffman until further order from here. A. LINCOLN

To Henry M. Rice
War Department Hon. Henry M. Rice Washington City, St. Paul, Minn. Nov. 24 1864
Have suspended execution of deserters named in your despatch, until further order from here. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew G. Curtin
Gov. Curtin War Department Washington City, Harrisburg, Pa. Nov. 25. 1864
I have no knowledge, information, or belief, that three States, or any state, offer to resume allegiance. A. LINCOLN

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Banks. Nov. 26. 1864.
I had a full conferrence this morning with the Secretary of War in relation to yourself. The conclusion is that it will be best for all if you proceed to New-Orleans, and act there in obedience to your order; and, in doing which, having continued, say, one month, if it shall then, as now, be your wish to resign, your resignation will be accepted. Please take this course. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Edward Bates

Let this appointment be made. A. LINCOLN Nov. 26. 1864

Order Concerning Joseph M. Locke
November 26, 1864
Report approved. Let Captain Locke be re-instated according to the recommendation of the Lieutenant General & the Judge Advocate General. A. LINCOLN Nov. 26, 1864

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans Executive Mansion, St Louis Washington, Nov. 26. 1864.
Please telegraph me briefly on what charge and evidence Mrs. Anna B. Martin has been sent to the Penitentiary at Alton. A LINCOLN

To Henry F. Harrington and Others
Executive Mansion, Gentlemen Washington, 28 November, 1864.
I have received with gratification your letter of the 12th November, and beg that you will accept my cordial thanks for your kind and generous words. I am very truly Your friend and Servant A. LINCOLN Revd. Henry F. Harrington &c &c

To Heads of Departments and Bureaus

I shall be very glad if the Head of any Department or Bureau, can find for, and give this young lady suitable employment. Nov. 29. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Alvin P. Hovey
Major General Hovey, or Executive Mansion, whoever may have charge Washington, at the proper time. Nov. 29. 1864.
Whenever John B. Castleman shall be tried, if convicted and sentenced, suspend execution until further order from me, and send me the record. A. LINCOLN.

To Ward H. Lamon
Executive Mansion Nov 29th [1864?]
Will Col Lamon please say, what at present prices, the feed for two horses & two ponies, would cost, per month. A. LINCOLN

To William M. Stone and Others
Executive Mansion Washington, Governor of Iowa. DesMoines  Nov. 29. 1864
May I renew my request for the exact aggregate vote of your State cast at the late election? My object fails if I do not receive it before Congress meets. A. LINCOLN Michigan 	Oregon Wisconsin 	Penn. Missouri 	Kansas Ohio	 West-Virginia.

Endorsement
November 30, 1864
I think this is a meritories application, and I shall be glad if the Head of any Bureau or Department can and will give the lady suitable employment A. LINCOLN Nov. 30. 1864

Endorsement Concerning John W. and Joseph Tatum
November 30, 1864
This paper is presented to me by Friends John W. Tatum, of Del. and Joseph Tatum of New-Jersey, who are satisfied that the statement is correct. Let the men within named, be discharged on affirming according to the oath of Dec. 8. 1863, and that they will remain North. A. LINCOLN Nov. 30. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
[c. November 30, 1864]
Ought not there to be an examination in the case of these men.

To Charles A. Dana

Will Mr. Dana, Asst. Sec. of War, please see and hear, Hon. S. F. Headley, of New-Jersey. A. LINCOLN Dec. 1. 1864

To Andrew Johnson
Gov. Johnson Executive Mansion, Washington, Nashville, Tenn. Dec. 1, 1864.
I am applied to for the release of Alexander B. Kinney, John P. Carter, and Samuel A. Owens. Your name commending their application to favorable consideration, is on the papers. If you will say directly that you think they ought to be discharged I will discharge them. Answer. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
His Excellency Andrew Johnson Executive Mansion, Nashville Washington, Tennessee 1 December, 1864.
In the cases of Alexander B. Kinney, John P. Carter, and Samuel A. Owens, Col. Wm B. Stokes has recommended the release of all three. His recommendation is on file here. A. LINCOLN Send above John Hay AAG

Recommendation
Executive Mansion. Dec. 1, 1864.
I do not personally know these ladies, but very cheerfully endorse Judge Wylie and Mayor Wallach, and shall be glad if the ladies can find employment in any Department or Bureau. A. LINCOLN.

To James Speed
Hon. James Speed Executive Mansion Louisville, Ky Washington, Dec. 1. 1864
I appoint you to be Attorney General. Please come on at once. A LINCOLN

To James Speed and Joshua F. Speed
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 1. 1864.
I have stated that if either Mr. James Speed, or Joshua F. Speed, will say in writing on this sheet that he has inquired into the cases of John H. Schramm, and C. T. Smith, and that he believes they or either of them ought to be discharged, on return of the paper I will order the discharge accordingly on the taking of the oath. A. LINCOLN Let these two men Smith & Schramm be discharged on taking the oath of December 8. 1863. A. LINCOLN Dec. 10. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Dec. 1, 1864.
Hon. George F. Miller, M.C. elect for the Harrisburg District, has a son---Daniel B. Miller---who for a long time has been acting Commissary of Subsistence, now wishes the appointment for him, with rank of Captain. He is now with the Army of the James. Let him be appointed. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Tabulation and Comparison of Election Returns---1860 and 1864
[c. December 1, 1864]
[ Total Lincoln Douglas Breckinridge Bell ] 	[ Lincoln McClellan Total ] 118.840 	California 	39.173	38.516. 	34.334. 	6.817 77.246 	Connecticut 	43.792 	15.522. 	14.641. 	3.291. 	44.511. 	42.105 	86.616 16.039 	Delawaware [ sic ] 	3.815 	1.025 	7.337. 	3.864 	8162. 	8762 	16.924 339.693 	Illinois 	172.161. 	160.215 	2.404 	4.913. 	189.505. 	158.730 	348.235 272.143 	Indiana 	139.033. 	115.509 	12.295 	5.306. 	150.422. 	130.223. 	280.645 128.331 	Iowa 	70.409 	55.111 	1.048 	1.763 	 	 	143.331 146.216 	Kentucky 	1.364 	25.651 	53.143 	66.058 	 	 	80.000 50.510 	Louisiana 	 	7.625 	22.681 	20.204. 97.918 	Maine 	62.811 	26.693 	6.368 	2.046 	 	 	111.000 92.502 	Maryland 	2.294 	5.966 	42.482 	41.760 	40.007.		32.726. 	72.733. 169.175 	Massachusetts 	106.533 	34.372 	5.939 	22.331 	126.742. 	48.745. 	175.487. 154.747 	Michigan 	88.480 	65.057 	805 	405 	 	 	162.413. 34.799 	Minnesota 	22.069 	11.920 	748 	62 	 	 	42.500. 165.538 	Missouri 	17.028 	58.821 	31.317 	58.372 65.953 	New-Hampshire 	37.519 	25.881 	2.112 	.441 	34.486. 	32.048. 	66.434 1.998. 	679. 	2.677 ------ 	------ 	------ 36.484. 	32.727 	69.111 121.125 	New-Jersey. 	58.324 	62.801 	 	 	 	 	128.630. 675.156 	New-York. 	362.646 	312.510 	 	 	368.730. 	361.934. 	730.664. 442.441 	Ohio 	231.610 	187.232 	11.405 	12.194 [ Total Lincoln Douglas Breckinridge Bell ] 	[ Lincoln McClellan Total ] 14.410 	Oregon 	5.270 	3.951 	5.006. 	183 476.442 	Pennsylvania 	268.030 	16.765 	178.871 	12.776 	 	 	556.382 19.931 	Rhode Island 	12.224. 	7.707 	 	 	13.624. 	8 563 	22.187 145.333 	Tennessee 	 	11.350 	64.709 	69.274 42.844 	Vermont 	33.808 	6.849 	218 	1.969. 	42.490. 	13.321. 	55.811 46.195 	West-Virginia 	1.302 	5.196. 	19.075. 	20.622 	23.437 	10.437 	33.874 152.180 	Wisconconsin [ sic ]. 	86.110 	65.021 	888 	161 Nevada. 	 	 	 	 	 	 	16.528 15.454 	Kansas 	 	 	 	 	14.000. 	4.000 	18.000 1860 1864 California 	118.840 	110.000 Connecticut. 	77.246 	86.616 Delaware 	16.039 	16.924 Illinois 	339.693 	348.235 Indiana 	272.143 	280.645 Iowa 	128.331 	143.331 Kentucky 	146.216 	90.000 Maine 	97.918 	111.000 Maryland 	92.502 	72.703 Massachusetts 	169.533 	175.487 Michigan 	154.747 	162.413 Minnesota 	34.799 	42.500 Missouri 	165.538 	90.000 New-Hampshire 	65.953 	69.111 New-Jersey 	121.125 	128.680 Tabulation and Comparison of Election Returns---1860 and 1864--- Continued [ Total Lincoln Douglas Breckinridge Bell ] 	[ Lincoln McClellan Total ] New-York. 	675.156 	 	730.664 Ohio 	442.441 	 	470.558 	 	 	457.102 Oregon 	14.410 	 	14.410 Pennsylvania 	476.442 	 	571.000 Rhode Island 	19.931 	 	22.187 Vermont 	42.844 	 	55.811 West-Virginia 	46.195 	 	33.874 Wisconsin 	152.180 	 	146.000 ------ 	 	------ 3.870.222 	 	3.958.693 3.870.222 ------ Increase--- 	 	88.471 Add Kansas. 	 	 	23.000 	really 	17.234. 	Soldiers vote not in '' Nevada. 	 	 	16.528 	 	16.528 ------ 	 	------ 127.999 	 	33.762 Soldiers vote in Mass. 	 	 	16.500 	 	3.982.011 ------ 4.015.773 '' R.I. 	 	 	3.000 3.870.222 ------ '' N.J. 	 	 	7.500 	 	145.551 '' Del. 	 	 	1.500 '' Ia. 	 	 	16.500 Ills 	 	 	21.000 ------ 193.999 Cal. 	 	 	4.500

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Banks. Dec. 2. 1864.
I know you are dissatisfied, which pains me very much; but I wish not to be argued with further. I entertain no abatement of confidence, or friendship for you. I have told you why I can not order Gen. Canby from the Department of the Gulf---that he whom I must hold responsible for military results, is not agreed. Yet I do believe that you, of all men, can best perform the part of advancing the new State government of Louisiana; and therefore I have wished you to go and try, leaving it to yourself to give up the trial at the end of a month, if you find it impracticable, or personally too disagreeable. This is certainly meant in no unkindness; but I wish to avoid further struggle about it. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Ethan A. Hitchcock
Executive Mansion, Washington, Gen. Hitchcock Dec. 2. 1864.
If you can oblige Mrs. Welles, by effecting a special exchange of Lieut. or Capt. Richard Dinsmore, now in the Poor-House prison at Charleston, I will be greatly obliged Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning the SteamerFunayma Solace
Executive Mansion, Washington, 3d December, 1864.
A war steamer called the 'Funayma Solace,' having been built in this country for the Japanese government and at the instance of that government, it is deemed to comport with the public interest, in view of the unsettled condition of the relations of the United States with that Empire, that the steamer should not be allowed to proceed to Japan. If, however, the Secretary of the Navy should ascertain that the steamer is adapted to our service, he is authorized to purchase her, but the purchase money will be held in trust towards satisfying any valid claims which may be presented by the Japanese on account of the construction of the steamer and the failure to deliver the same as above set forth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order for Discharge

I suppose there is some charge against this man; but if there is none, let him be discharged. A. LINCOLN Dec. 4, 1864

Endorsement

I perceive the within is about business, and not about pictures. Dec. 5. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Let execution be suspended until the record can be examined. Dec. 5. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
December 5, 1864
If Gov. Johnson will say in writing on this sheet that in his opinion this man should be discharged, I will discharge him. Dec. 5. 1864. A. LINCOLN Let this man take the oath of Dec. 8. 1863 & be discharged as recommended by Gov. Johnson. A. LINCOLN Dec. 22. 1864

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States : December 5, 1864
By virtue of the authority contained in the 6th section of the act of 21 April, 1864, which enacts ``that any officer in the Naval service, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, may be advanced not exceeding thirty numbers in his own grade, for distinguished conduct in battle or extraordinary heroism,'' I recommend that Commander Wm. H. Macomb, U.S. Navy, for advancement in his grade ten numbers, to take rank next after Commander Wm. Ronckendorff, for distinguished conduct in the capture of the town of Plymouth, N.C., with its batteries, ordnance stores, &c., on the 31 October, 1864, by a portion of the naval division under his command. The affair was executed in a most creditable manner. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington City, 5 December, 1864.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States : December 5, 1864
By virtue of the authority contained in the 6th section of the act of 21 April, 1864, which enacts ``That any officer in the naval service, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, may be advanced not exceeding thirty numbers in his own grade, for distinguished conduct in battle or extraordinary heroism,'' I recommend that Lieutenant Commander James S. Thornton, U.S. Navy, the executive officer of the U.S. steamer Kearsarge, for advancement in his grade ten numbers, to take rank next after Lieutenant Commander Wm. D. Whiting, for his good conduct and faithful discharge of his duties in the brilliant action with the rebel steamer Alabama which led to the destruction of that vessel on the 19 June, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington City, 5 December, 1864.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
To the Senate and December 5, 1864
House of Representatives . In conformity to the Law of 11 July 1862. I most cordially recommend that Lieutenant Wm. B. Cushing, U.S. Navy, receive a vote of Thanks from Congress, for his important, gallant and perilous achievement in destroying the Rebel iron-clad Steamer ``Albemarle,'' on the night of the 27 October 1864, at Plymouth, N.C. The destruction of so formidable a vessel, which had resisted the continued attacks of a number of our vessels on former occasions, is an important event touching our future Naval and Military operations and would reflect honor on any Officer and redounds to the credit of this young officer and the few brave comrades who assisted in this successful and daring undertaking. This recommendation is specially made in order to comply with the requirements of the 9th. Section of the aforesaid Act, which is in the following words, viz:--- ``That any line officer of the Navy or Marine Corps may be advanced one grade, if upon recommendation of the President by name, he receives the thanks of Congress for highly distinguished conduct in conflict with the enemy, or, for extraordinary heroism in the line of his profession.'' ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington City, 5 December 1864.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
To the Senate and December 5, 1864
House of Representatives :--- In conformity to the Law of 16 July 1862, I most cordially recommend that Captain John A. Winslow, U.S. Navy, receive a vote of Thanks from Congress, for the skill and gallantry exhibited by him in the brilliant action, whilst in command of the U.S. Steamer Kearsarge, which led to the total destruction of the Piratical craft ``Alabama,'' on the 19 June 1864,---a vessel superior in tonnage, superior in number of guns, and superior in number of crew. This recommendation is specially made in order to comply with the requirements of the 9th. Section of the aforesaid Act, which is in the following words, viz:--- ``That any line officer of the Navy or Marine Corps may be advanced one grade, if upon recommendation by the President by name, he receives the thanks of Congress for highly distinguished conduct in conflict with the enemy, or for extraordinary heroism in the line of his profession.'' ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington City, 5 December 1864.

To George H. Thomas
Executive Mansion, Major General Thomas Washington, Nashville, Tennessee. December 5th. 1864.
Let execution in the case of Oliver B. Wheeler, Sergeant in the 6th Regiment Missouri Vol's, under sentence of death for desertion at Chattanooga, on the 15th. inst, be suspended until further order, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN Major Eckert Please forward the above JNO. G. NICOLAY

Annual Message to Congress
Fellow-citizens of the Senate December 6, 1864
and House of Representatives: Again the blessings of health and abundant harvests claim our profoundest gratitude to Almighty God. The condition of our foreign affairs is reasonably satisfactory.  Mexico continues to be a theatre of civil war. While our political relations with that country have undergone no change, we have, at the same time, strictly maintained neutrality between the belligerents.  At the request of the states of Costa Rica and Nicaragua, a competent engineer has been authorized to make a survey of the river San Juan and the port of San Juan. It is a source of much satisfaction that the difficulties which for a moment excited some political apprehensions, and caused a closing of the inter-oceanic transit route, have been amicably adjusted, and that there is a good prospect that the route will soon be reopened with an increase of capacity and adaptation.  We could not exaggerate either the commercial or the political importance of that great improvement. It would be doing injustice to an important South American state not to acknowledge the directness, frankness, and cordiality with which the United States of Colombia have entered into intimate relations with this government. A claims convention has been constituted to complete the unfinished work of the one which closed its session in 1861.  . The new liberal constitution of Venezuela having gone into effect with the universal acquiescence of the people, the government under it has been recognized, and diplomatic intercourse with it has opened in a cordial and friendly spirit. The long-deferred Aves Island claim has been satisfactorily paid and discharged.  Mutual payments have been made of the claims awarded by the late joint commission for the settlement of claims between the United States and Peru.  An earnest and cordial friendship continues to exist between the two countries, and such efforts as were in my power have been used to remove misunderstanding and avert a threatened war between Peru and Spain.  . Our relations are of the most friendly nature with Chile, the Argentine Republic, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Paraguay, San Salvador, and Hayti. During the past year no differences of any kind have arisen with any of those republics, and, on the other hand, their sympathies with the United States are constantly expressed with cordiality and earnestness. The claim arising from the seizure of the cargo of the brig Macedonian in 1821 has been paid in full by the government of Chile.  Civil war continues in the Spanish part of San Domingo, apparently without prospect of an early close. Official correspondence has been freely opened with Liberia, and it gives us a pleasing view of social and political progress in that Republic. It may be expected to derive new vigor from American influence, improved by the rapid disappearance of slavery in the United States. I solicit your authority to furnish to the republic a gunboat at moderate cost, to be reimbursed to the United States by instalments.  Such a vessel is needed for the safety of that state against the native African races; and in Liberian hands it would be more effective in arresting the African slave trade than a squadron in our own hands. The possession of the least organized naval force would stimulate a generous ambition in the republic, and the confidence which we should manifest by furnishing it would win forbearance and favor towards the colony from all civilized nations. The proposed overland telegraph between America and Europe,  by the way of Behring's Straits and Asiatic Russia, which was sanctioned by Congress at the last session, has been undertaken, under very favorable circumstances, by an association of American citizens, with the cordial good-will and support as well of this government as of those of Great Britain and Russia. Assurances have been received from most of the South American States of their high appreciation of the enterprise, and their readiness to co-operate in constructing lines tributary to that world-encircling communication. I learn, with much satisfaction, that the noble design of a telegraphic communication between the eastern coast of America and Great Britain has been renewed with full expectation of its early accomplishment. Thus it is hoped that with the return of domestic peace the country will be able to resume with energy and advantage its former high career of commerce and civilization. Our very popular and estimable representative in Egypt died in April last.  An unpleasant altercation which arose between the temporary incumbent of the office and the government of the Pacha resulted in a suspension of intercourse. The evil was promptly corrected on the arrival of the successor in the consulate, and our relations with Egypt, as well as our relations with the Barbary powers, are entirely satisfactory. The rebellion which has so long been flagrant in China, has at last been suppressed, with the co-operating good offices of this government, and of the other western commercial states.  The judicial consular establishment there has become very difficult and onerous, and it will need legislative revision to adapt it to the extension of our commerce, and to the more intimate intercourse which has been instituted with the government and people of that vast empire. China seems to be accepting with hearty good-will the conventional laws which regulate commercial and social intercourse among the western nations. Owing to the peculiar situation of Japan, and the anomalous form of its government, the action of that empire in performing treaty stipulations is inconstant and capricious.  Nevertheless, good progress has been effected by the western powers, moving with enlightened concert. Our own pecuniary claims have been allowed, or put in course of settlement, and the inland sea has been reopened to commerce. There is reason also to believe that these proceedings have increased rather than diminished the friendship of Japan towards the United States. The ports of Norfolk, Fernandina, and Pensacola have been opened by proclamation.  It is hoped that foreign merchants will now consider whether it is not safer and more profitable to themselves, as well as just to the United States, to resort to these and other open ports, than it is to pursue, through many hazards, and at vast cost, a contraband trade with other ports which are closed, if not by actual military occupation, at least by a lawful and effective blockade. For myself, I have no doubt of the power and duty of the Executive, under the law of nations, to exclude enemies of the human race from an asylum in the United States. If Congress should think that proceedings in such cases lack the authority of law, or ought to be further regulated by it, I recommend that provision be made for effectually preventing foreign slave traders from acquiring domicile and facilities for their criminal occupation in our country. It is possible that, if it were a new and open question, the maritime powers, with the lights they now enjoy, would not concede the privileges of a naval belligerent to the insurgents of the United States, destitute, as they are, and always have been, equally of ships-of-war and of ports and harbors. Disloyal emissaries have been neither less assiduous nor more successful during the last year than they were before that time in their efforts, under favor of that privilege, to embroil our country in foreign wars. The desire and determination of the governments of the maritime states to defeat that design are believed to be as sincere as, and cannot be more earnest than our own. Nevertheless, unforeseen political difficulties have arisen, especially in Brazilian and British ports,  and on the northern boundary of the United States, which have required, and are likely to continue to require, the practice of constant vigilance, and a just and conciliatory spirit on the part of the United States as well as of the nations concerned and their governments. Commissioners have been appointed under the treaty with Great Britain on the adjustment of the claims of the Hudson's Bay and Puget's Sound Agricultural Companies, in Oregon, and are now proceeding to the execution of the trust assigned to them.  In view of the insecurity of life and property in the region adjacent to the Canadian border,  by reason of recent assaults and depredations committed by inimical and desperate persons, who are harbored there, it has been thought proper to give notice that after the expiration of six months, the period conditionally stipulated in the existing arrangement with Great Britain, the United States must hold themselves at liberty to increase their naval armament upon the lakes, if they shall find that proceeding necessary. The condition of the border will necessarily come into consideration in connection with the question of continuing or modifying the rights of transit from Canada through the United States, as well as the regulation of imposts, which were temporarily established by the reciprocity treaty of the 5th of June, 1854. I desire, however, to be understood, while making this statement, that the Colonial authorities of Canada are not deemed to be intentionally unjust or unfriendly towards the United States; but, on the contrary, there is every reason to expect that, with the approval of the imperial government, they will take the necessary measures to prevent new incursions across the border. The act passed at the last session for the encouragement of emigration has, so far as was possible, been put into operation. It seems to need amendment which will enable the officers of the government to prevent the practice of frauds against the immigrants while on their way and on their arrival in the ports, so as to secure them here a free choice of avocations and places of settlement.  A liberal disposition towards this great national policy is manifested by most of the European States, and ought to be reciprocated on our part by giving the immigrants effective national protection. I regard our emigrants as one of the principal replenishing streams which are appointed by Providence to repair the ravages of internal war, and its wastes of national strength and health. All that is necessary is to secure the flow of that stream in its present fullness, and to that end the government must, in every way, make it manifest that it neither needs nor designs to impose involuntary military service upon those who come from other lands to cast their lot in our country. The financial affairs of the government have been successfully administered during the last year.  The legislation of the last session of Congress has beneficially affected the revenues, although sufficient time has not yet elapsed to experience the full effect of several of the provisions of the acts of Congress imposing increased taxation. The receipts during the year, from all sources, upon the basis of warrants signed by the Secretary of the Treasury, including loans and the balance in the treasury on the first day of July, 1863, were $1,394,796,007 62; and the aggregate disbursements, upon the same basis, were $1,298,056,101 89, leaving a balance in the treasury, as shown by warrants, of $96,739,905 73. Deduct from these amounts the amount of the principal of the public debt redeemed, and the amount of issues in substitution therefor, and the actual cash operations of the treasury were: receipts, $884,076,646 57; disbursements $865,234,087 86; which leaves a cash balance in the treasury of $18,842,558 71. Of the receipts, there were derived from customs, $102,316,152 99; from lands, $588,333 29; from direct taxes, $475,648 96; from internal revenue, $109,741,134 10; from miscellaneous sources, $47,511,448 10; and from loans applied to actual expenditures, including former balance, $623,443,929 13. There were disbursed, for the civil service, $27,505,599 46; for pensions and Indians, $7,517,930 97; for the War Department $690,791,842 97; for the Navy Department $85,733,292 77; for interest of the public debt $53,685,421 69;---making an aggregate of $865,234,087.86, and leaving a balance in the treasury of $18,842,558.71, as before stated. For the actual receipts and disbursements for the first quarter, and the estimated receipts and disbursements for the three remaining quarters of the current fiscal year, and the general operations of the treasury in detail, I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Treasury. I concur with him in the opinion that the proportion of moneys required to meet the expenses consequent upon the war derived from taxation should be still further increased; and I earnestly invite your attention to this subject, to the end that there may be such additional legislation as shall be required to meet the just expectations of the Secretary. The public debt on the first day of July last, as appears by the books of the treasury, amounted to $1,740,690 489 49. Probably, should the war continue for another year, that amount may be increased by not far from five hundred millions. Held as it is, for the most part, by our own people, it has become a substantial branch of national, though private, property. For obvious reasons, the more nearly this property can be distributed among all the people the better. To favor such general distribution, greater inducements to become owners might, perhaps, with good effect, and without injury, be presented to persons of limited means. With this view, I suggest whether it might not be both competent and expedient for Congress to provide that a limited amount of some future issue of public securities might be held by any bona fide purchaser exempt from taxation, and from seizure for debt, under such restrictions and limitations as might be necessary to guard against abuse of so important a privilege. This would enable every prudent person to set aside a small annuity against a possible day of want. Privileges like these would render the possession of such securities, to the amount limited, most desirable to every person of small means who might be able to save enough for the purpose. The great advantage of citizens being creditors as well as debtors, with relation to the public debt, is obvious. Men readily perceive that they cannot be much oppressed by a debt which they owe to themselves. The public debt on the first day of July last, although somewhat exceeding the estimate of the Secretary of the Treasury made to Congress at the commencement of the last session, falls short of the estimate of that officer made in the preceding December, as to its probable amount at the beginning of this year, by the sum of $3,995,097 31. This fact exhibits a satisfactory condition and conduct of the operations of the Treasury. The national banking system is proving to be acceptable to capitalists and to the people. On the twenty-fifth day of November five hundred and eighty-four national banks had been organized, a considerable number of which were conversions from State banks. Changes from State systems to the national system are rapidly taking place, and it is hoped that, very soon, there will be in the United States, no banks of issue not authorized by Congress, and no bank-note circulation not secured by the government. That the government and the people will derive great benefit from this change in the banking systems of the country can hardly be questioned. The national system will create a reliable and permanent influence in support of the national credit, and protect the people against losses in the use of paper money. Whether or not any further legislation is advisable for the suppression of State bank issues, it will be for Congress to determine. It seems quite clear that the treasury cannot be satisfactorily conducted unless the government can exercise a restraining power over the bank-note circulation of the country. The report of the Secretary of War  and the accompanying documents will detail the campaigns of the armies in the field since the date of the last annual message, and also the operations of the several administrative bureaus of the War Department during the last year. It will also specify the measures deemed essential for the national defence, and to keep up and supply the requisite military force. The report of the Secretary of the Navy presents a comprehensive and satisfactory exhibit of the affairs of that Department and of the naval service.  It is a subject of congratulation and laudable pride to our countrymen that a navy of such vast proportions has been organized in so brief a period, and conducted with so much efficiency and success. The general exhibit of the navy, including vessels under construction on the 1st. of December, 1864, shows a total of 671 vessels, carrying 4,610 guns, and of 510,396 tons, being an actual increase during the year, over and above all losses by shipwreck or in battle, of 83 vessels, 167 guns, and 42,427 tons. The total number of men at this time in the naval service, including officers, is about 51,000. There have been captured by the navy during the year 324 vessels, and the whole number of naval captures since hostilities commenced is 1,379, of which 267 are steamers. The gross proceeds arising from the sale of condemned prize property, thus far reported, amount to $14,396,250 51. A large amount of such proceeds is still under adjudication and yet to be reported. The total expenditures of the Navy Department of every description, including the cost of the immense squadrons that have been called into existence from the 4th of March, 1861, to the 1st. of November, 1864, are $238,647,262 35. Your favorable consideration is invited to the various recommendations of the Secretary of the Navy, especially in regard to a navy yard and suitable establishment for the construction and repair of iron vessels, and the machinery and armature for our ships, to which reference was made in my last annual message.  Your attention is also invited to the views expressed in the report in relation to the legislation of Congress at its last session in respect to prize on our inland waters. I cordially concur in the recommendation of the Secretary as to the propriety of creating the new rank of vice-admiral in our naval service.  Your attention is invited to the report of the Postmaster General for a detailed account of the operations and financial condition of the Post Office Department.  The postal revenues for the year ending June 30, 1864, amounted to $12,438,253.78 and the expenditures to $12,644,786.20; the excess of expenditures over receipts being $206,652.42 [$206,532.42]. The views presented by the Postmaster General on the subject of special grants by the government in aid of the establishment of new lines of ocean mail steamships and the policy he recommends for the development of increased commercial intercourse with adjacent and neighboring countries, should receive the careful consideration of Congress.  It is of noteworthy interest that the steady expansion of population, improvement and governmental institutions over the new and unoccupied portions of our country have scarcely been checked, much less impeded or destroyed, by our great civil war, which at first glance would seem to have absorbed almost the entire energies of the nation. The organization and admission of the State of Nevada has been completed in conformity with law,  and thus our excellent system is firmly established in the mountains, which once seemed a barren and uninhabitable waste between the Atlantic States and those which have grown up on the coast of the Pacific ocean. The territories of the Union are generally in a condition of prosperity and rapid growth.  Idaho and Montana, by reason of their great distance and the interruption of communication with them by Indian hostilities, have been only partially organized; but it is understood that these difficulties are about to disappear, which will permit their governments, like those of the others, to go into speedy and full operation. As intimately connected with, and promotive of, this material growth of the nation, I ask the attention of Congress to the valuable information and important recommendations relating to the public lands, Indian affairs, the Pacific railroad, and mineral discoveries contained in the report of the Secretary of the Interior, which is herewith transmitted, and which report also embraces the subjects of patents, pensions and other topics of public interest pertaining to his department. The quantity of public land disposed of during the five quarters ending on the 30th of September last was 4,221,342 acres, of which 1,538,614 acres were entered under the homestead law. The remainder was located with military land warrants, agricultural scrip certified to States for railroads, and sold for cash. The cash received from sales and location fees was $1,019,446. The income from sales during the fiscal year, ending June 30, 1864, was $678,007,21, against $136,077,95 received during the preceding year. The aggregate number of acres surveyed during the year has been equal to the quantity disposed of; and there is open to settlement about 133,000,000 acres of surveyed land. The great enterprise of connecting the Atlantic with the Pacific States by railways and telegraph lines has been entered upon with a vigor that gives assurance of success, notwithstanding the embarrassments arising from the prevailing high prices of materials and labor. The route of the main line of the road has been definitely located for one hundred miles westward from the initial point at Omaha City, Nebraska, and a preliminary location of the Pacific railroad of California has been made from Sacramento eastward to the great bend of the Truckee river in Nevada. Numerous discoveries of gold, silver and cinnabar mines have been added to the many heretofore known and the country occupied by the Sierra Nevada and Rocky mountains, and the subordinate ranges, now teems with enterprising labor, which is richly remunerative. It is believed that the product of the mines of precious metals in that region has, during the year, reached, if not exceeded, one hundred millions in value. It was recommended in my last annual message that our Indian system be remodelled. Congress, at its last session, acting upon the recommendation, did provide for reorganizing the system in California,  and it is believed that under the present organization the management of the Indians there will be attended with reasonable success. Much yet remains to be done to provide for the proper government of the Indians in other parts of the country to render it secure for the advancing settler, and to provide for the welfare of the Indian. The Secretary reiterates his recommendations, and to them the attention of Congress is invited. The liberal provisions made by Congress for paying pensions to invalid soldiers and sailors of the republic, and to the widows, orphans, and dependent mothers of those who have fallen in battle, or died of disease contracted, or of wounds received in the service of their country, have been diligently administered. There have been added to the pension, rolls, during the year ending the 30th day of June last, the names of 16,770 invalid soldiers, and of 271 disabled seamen, making the present number of army invalid pensioners 22,767, and of navy invalid pensioners 712. Of widows, orphans and mothers, 22 198 have been placed on the army pension rolls, and 248 on the navy rolls. The present number of army pensioners of this class is 25,433, and of navy pensioners 793. At the beginning of the year the number of revolutionary pensioners was 1,430; only twelve of them were soldiers, of whom seven have since died. The remainder are those who, under the law, receive pensions because of relationship to revolutionary soldiers. During the year ending the 30th of June, 1864, $4,504,616,92 have been paid to pensioners of all classes. I cheerfully commend to your continued patronage the benevolent institutions of the District of Columbia which have hitherto been established or fostered by Congress, and respectfully refer, for information concerning them, and in relation to the Washington aqueduct, the Capitol and other matters of local interest, to the report of the Secretary. The Agricultural Department,  under the supervision of its present energetic and faithful head, is rapidly commending itself to the great and vital interest it was created to advance. It is peculiarly the people's department, in which they feel more directly concerned than in any other. I commend it to the continued attention and fostering care of Congress. The  war continues. Since the last annual message all the important lines and positions then occupied by our forces have been maintained, and our arms have steadily advanced;  thus liberating the regions left in rear, so that Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee and parts of other States have again produced reasonably fair crops. The  most remarkable feature in the military operations of the year is General Sherman's attempted march of three hundred miles directly through the insurgent region. It tends to show a great increase of our relative strength that our General-in-Chief should feel able to confront and hold in check every active force of the enemy, and yet to detach a well-appointed large army to move on such an expedition.  The result not yet being known, conjecture in regard to it is not here indulged. Important movements have also occurred during the year to the effect of moulding society for durability in the Union. Although short of complete success, it is much in the right direction, that twelve thousand citizens in each of the States of Arkansas and Louisiana have organized loyal State governments with free constitutions, and are earnestly struggling to maintain and administer them. The movements in the same direction, more extensive, though less definite in Missouri, Kentucky and Tennessee, should not be overlooked. But Maryland presents  the example of complete success. Maryland is secure to Liberty and Union for all the future. The genius of rebellion will no more claim Maryland. Like another foul  spirit, being driven out, it may seek to tear her, but it will woo her no more. At  the last session of Congress a proposed amendment of the Constitution abolishing slavery throughout the United States, passed the Senate, but failed for lack of the requisite two-thirds vote in the House of Representatives. Although the present is the same Congress, and nearly the same members, and without questioning the wisdom or patriotism of those who stood in opposition, I venture to recommend the reconsideration and passage of the measure at the present session. Of course the abstract question is not changed; but an intervening election shows, almost certainly, that the next Congress will pass the measure if this does not. Hence there is only a question of time as to when the proposed amendment will go to the States for their action. And as it is to so go, at all events, may we not agree that the sooner the better? It is not claimed that the election has imposed a duty on members to change their views or their votes, any further than, as an additional element to be considered, their judgment may be affected by it. It is the voice of the people now, for the first time, heard upon the question. In a great national crisis, like ours, unanimity of action among those seeking a common end is very desirable---almost indispensable. And yet no approach to such unanimity is attainable, unless some deference shall be paid to the will of the majority, simply because it is the will of the majority. In this case the common end is the maintenance of the Union; and, among the means to secure that end, such will, through the election, is most clearly declared in favor of such constitutional amendment. The most reliable indication of public purpose in this country is derived through our popular elections. Judging by the recent canvass and its result, the purpose of the people, within the loyal States, to maintain the integrity of the Union, was never more firm, nor more nearly unanimous, than now. The extraordinary calmness and good order with which the millions of voters met and mingled at the polls, give strong assurance of this. Not only all those who supported the Union ticket, so called, but a great majority of the opposing party also, may be fairly claimed to entertain, and to be actuated by, the same purpose. It is an unanswerable argument to this effect, that no candidate for any office whatever, high or low, has ventured to seek votes on the avowal that he was for giving up the Union. There have been much impugning of motives, and much heated controversy as to the proper means and best mode of advancing the Union cause; but on the distinct issue of Union or no Union, the politicians have shown their instinctive knowledge that there is no diversity among the people. In affording the people the fair opportunity of showing, one to another and to the world, this firmness and unanimity of purpose, the election has been of vast value to the national cause. The  election has exhibited another fact not less valuable to be known---the fact that we do not approach exhaustion in the most important branch of national resources---that of living men. While it is melancholy to reflect that the war has filled so many graves, and carried mourning to so many hearts, it is some relief to know that, compared with the surviving, the fallen have been so few. While corps, and divisions, and brigades, and regiments have formed, and fought, and dwindled, and gone out of existence, a great majority of the men who composed them are still living. The same is true of the naval service. The election returns prove this. So many voters could not else be found. The States regularly holding elections, both now and four years ago, to  wit, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, West Virginia, and Wisconsin cast 3.982.011 votes now, against 3.870.222 cast then, showing an aggregate now of 3.982.011. To this is to be added 33.762 cast now in the new States of Kansas and Nevada, which States did not vote in 1860, thus swelling the aggregate to 4.015.773 and the net increase during the three years and a half of war to 145.551. A table is appended showing particulars. To  this again should be added the number of all soldiers in the field from Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware, Indiana, Illinois, and California, who, by the laws of those States, could not vote away from their homes, and which number cannot be less than 90.000. Nor yet is this all. The number in organized Territories is triple now what it was four years ago, while thousands, white and black, join us as the national arms press back the insurgent lines. So much is shown, affirmatively and negatively, by the election. It is not material to inquire how the increase has been produced, or to show that it would have been greater but for the war, which is probably true. The important fact remains demonstrated, that we have more men now than we had when the war began ; that we are not exhausted, nor in process of exhaustion; that we are gaining strength, and may, if need be, maintain the contest indefinitely. This as to men. Material resources are now more complete and abundant than ever. The national resources, then, are unexhausted, and, as we believe, inexhaustible. The public purpose to re-establish and maintain the national authority is unchanged, and, as we believe, unchangeable. The manner of continuing the effort remains to choose. On careful consideration of all the evidence accessible it seems to me that no attempt at negotiation with the insurgent leader could result in any good. He would accept nothing short of severance of the Union---precisely what we will not and cannot give. His declarations to this effect are explicit and oft-repeated. He does not attempt to deceive us. He affords us no excuse to deceive ourselves. He cannot voluntarily reaccept the Union; we cannot voluntarily yield it. Between him and us the issue is distinct, simple, and inflexible. It is an issue which can only be tried by war, and decided by victory. If we yield, we are beaten; if the Southern people fail him, he is beaten. Either way, it would be the victory and defeat following war. What is true, however, of him who heads the insurgent cause, is not  necessarily true of those who follow. Although he cannot reaccept the Union, they can. Some of them, we know, already desire peace and reunion. The number of such may increase. They can, at any moment, have peace simply by laying down their arms and submitting to  the national authority under the Constitution. After so much, the government could not, if it would, maintain war against them. The loyal people would not sustain or allow it. If questions should remain, we would adjust them by the peaceful means of legislation, conference, courts, and votes, operating only in constitutional and lawful channels. Some certain, and other possible, questions are, and would be, beyond the Executive power to adjust; as, for instance, the admission of members into Congress, and whatever might require the appropriation of money. The Executive power itself would be greatly diminished by the cessation of actual war. Pardons and remissions of forfeitures, however, would still be within Executive control. In what spirit and temper this control would be exercised can be fairly judged of by the past. A year ago general pardon and amnesty, upon specified terms, were offered to all, except certain designated classes; and, it was, at the same time, made known that the excepted classes were still within contemplation of special clemency. During the year many availed themselves of the general provision, and many more would, only that the signs of bad faith in some led to such precautionary measures as rendered the practical process less easy and certain. During the same time also special pardons have been granted to individuals of the excepted classes, and no voluntary application has been denied. Thus, practically, the door has been, for a full year, open to all, except such as were not in condition to make free choice---that is, such as were in custody or under constraint. It is still so open to all. But the time may come---probably will come---when public duty shall demand that it be closed; and that, in lieu, more rigorous measures than heretofore shall be adopted. In  presenting the abandonment of armed resistance to the national authority on the part of the insurgents, as the only indispensable condition to ending the war on the part of the government, I retract nothing heretofore said as to slavery. I repeat the declaration made a year ago, that ``while I remain in my present position I shall not attempt to retract or modify the emancipation proclamation, nor shall I return to slavery any person who is free by the terms of that proclamation, or by any of the Acts of Congress.'' If  the people should, by whatever mode or means, make it an Executive duty to re-enslave such persons, another, and not I, must be their instrument to perform it. In stating a single condition of peace, I mean simply to say that the war will cease on the part of the government, whenever it shall have ceased on the part of those who began it. December 6. 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Table showing the aggregate votes in the States named, at the presidential election respectively in 1860 and 1864.  1860. 	1864. California ...... 	118,840 ......  *,000 Connecticut ...... 	77,246 ...... 	86,616 Delaware ...... 	16,039 ...... 	16,924 Illinois ......		339,693 ...... 	348,235 Indiana ...... 	272,143 ...... 	280,645 Iowa ...... 	128,331 ...... 	143,331 Kentucky ...... 	146,216 ......  *,300 Maine ......	97,918 ......	115,141 Maryland ...... 	92,502 ...... 	72,703 Massachusetts ...... 	169,533 ...... 	175,487 Michigan ...... 	154,747 ...... 	162,413 Minnesota ...... 	34,799 ......	42,534 Missouri ...... 	165,538 ......  *,000 New Hampshire ...... 	65,953 ......	69,111 New Jersey ...... 	121,125 ...... 	128,680 New York ...... 	675,156 ...... 	730,664 Ohio ......	442,441 ...... 	470,745 Oregon ...... 	14,410 ......  ,410 Pennsylvania ...... 	476,442 ...... 	572,697 Rhode Island ...... 	19,931 ...... 	22,187 Vermont ...... 	42,844 ...... 	55,811 West Virginia ...... 	46,195 ...... 	33,874 Wisconsin ...... 	152,180 ...... 	148,513 ---------	--------- 3,870,222	3,982,011 --------- Kansas ............	17,234 Nevada ............ 	16,528 --------- 33,762 3,982,011 ---------- Total ................ 	 4,015,773 3,870,222 ---------- Net increase ... 	 145,551 ---------- *Nearly Estimated.

Response to a Serenade
December 6, 1864
FRIENDS AND FELLOW-CITIZENS: I believe I shall never be old enough to speak without embarrassment when I have anything [nothing?] to talk about. [Laughter and cheering.] I have no good news to tell you, and yet I have no bad news to tell. We have talked of elections until there is nothing more to say about them. The most interesting news we now have is from Sherman. We all know where he went in at, but I can't tell where he will come out at. [Cheers and cries, ``He'll come out all right.''] I will now close by proposing three cheers for Gen. Sherman and the army.

To the Senate
Executive Mansion Washington, D.C. To the Senate of the United States Dec. 6. 1864
I nominate Salmon P. Chase of Ohio, to be Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States vice Roger B. Taney, deceased. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Story Written for Noah Brooks
[December 6, 1864]
THE PRESIDENT'S LAST, SHORTEST, AND BEST SPEECH. On thursday of last week two ladies from Tennessee came before the President asking the release of their husbands held as prisoners of war at Johnson's Island. They were put off till friday, when they came again; and were again put off to saturday. At each of the interviews one of the ladies urged that her husband was a religious man. On saturday the President ordered the release of the prisoners, and then said to this lady ``You say your husband is a religious man; tell him when you meet him, that I say I am not much of a judge of religion, but that, in my opinion, the religion that sets men to rebel and fight against their government, because, as they think, that government does not sufficiently help some men to eat their bread on the sweat of other men's faces, is not the sort of religion upon which people can get to heaven!'' A. LINCOLN.

Endorsement

On the strength of Gen. Dix' indorsement, I approve. Dec. 7. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To James B. Fry
December 7, 1864
I know nothing of this gentleman or his case, except as presented by these papers. I merely submit to the Provost Marshal General whether an inquiry is not due him. A. LINCOLN Dec. 7, 1864.

To Willard P. Hall
Gov. Hall Executive Mansion, Washington, Jefferson City Mo. Dec. 7, 1864.
Complaint is made to me of the doings of a man at Hannibal, Mo. by the name of Haywood, who, as I am told, has charge of some militia force, and is not in the U.S. service. Please inquire into the matter & correct anything you may find amiss if in your power. A LINCOLN

To John B. Henderson
December 7, 1864
Will Senator Henderson please see and hear this Missouri lady, and report to me on the case she shall present. A. LINCOLN Dec. 7, 1864 Let this man be discharged on taking the oath of Dec. 8, 1863. Dec. 8, 1864 A. LINCOLN

Memorandum:Appointment of Daniel H. Brush, Jr.

File & remember. A. LINCOLN Dec. 7. 1864

MemorandumConcerning Benjamin F. Flanders
[December 7? 1864]
Gen. Banks thinks Mr. Montague, while a good man would scarcely be active enough for Flander's place. He thinks Col. Frank W. Howe would be better.

MemorandumConcerning William W. Ketchum

If there should be a change of Governor of New-Mexico, I wish to be reminded of this paper. A. LINCOLN Dec. 7. 1864.

MemorandumConcerning New Mexico Appointments
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 7, 1864.
To-day Mr. Perea, Delegate from New-Mexico, asks that Arny, Secretary of the Territory be removed, and Charles P. Clever be appointed in his stead. Also Dr. Steck, Sup. Ind. Affairs, be removed, & Philip P. Delgado. Also John Greiner, Receiver of Public-Monies & James L. Collins appointed [in] his place.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 7, 1864
In answer to the Senate's Resolution of yesterday, requesting information in regard to aid furnished to the rebellion by British subjects, I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington 7 December, 1864.

To James Speed

Attorney General please have a Brief made of these and all other papers on file in relation to Indiana vacant Judgeship. Dec. 7. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Washington, Sir: Dec. 7. 1864.
Senator Hicks again calls on me in relation to the Commission sitting in Maryland, constituted of Rogers, Timmons & Straughn. Please have it looked after, so as to know whether anything, and if any thing, what, is wrong. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

If this is consistent, I shall be glad for it to be done. Dec. 8, 1864 A. LINCOLN.

To Thomas B. Fairleigh
Col. Farleigh Executive Mansion Washington D.C Louisville, Ky Dec. 8. 1864
I am appealed to in behalf of a man by the name of Frank Fairbairn, said to have been for a long time, & still in prison, without any definite ground stated. How is it? A LINCOLN

Recommendation for John C. Hutton

If this gentleman could find, in any Department or Bureau, employment suitable to him I should be glad. A LINCOLN Dec. 8. 1864

To William S. Rosecrans
Major General Rosecrans comdg Executive Mansion St. Louis Mo Dec. 8. 1864
Let execution in case of John Berry & James Berry be suspended until further order. A. LINCOLN Major Eckert Will you please hurry off the above Tomorrow is the day of execution. JOHN HAY A.A.G.

Order Concerning Elijah Morgan
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 9, 1864.
Today, on the application of Hon. Mr. Whaley, of West Virginia, I direct that Elijah Morgan a prisoner of war at Fort-Delaware, be discharged on taking the oath of Dec. 8, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

Pass

Allow this Soldier's wife to pass free from Washington to NewYork. A. LINCOLN Dec. 9. 1864

Recommendation for Discharged Soldiers

I shall be glad if any Department or Bureau can give employment to the discharged soldiers. A. LINCOLN Dec. 9, 1864

To James Speed
December 9, 1864
Induced by the within, and by other representations, to believe there may have been [a] mistake, and consequent injustice in the removal of Justice Miller, let him be re-appointed. A. LINCOLN Dec. 9. 1864.

To Robert K. Stone
December 9, 1864
If Dr. Stone pleases to call & see me at 9. A.M. to-morrow, I will talk with him about trying to oblige his family in regard to Mrs. Ritchie at Richmond. A. LINCOLN. Dec. 9, 1864

Introduction

Introducing Col. Jason March. A. LINCOLN. Dec. 10, 1864.

Order Appointing Commissionersto Investigate the Military Division Bordering upon and West of the Mississippi
Executive Mansion, December 10, 1864.
Ordered, First That Maj. Gen. William F. Smith and the Hon. Henry Stanbery be, and they are hereby, appointed special commissioners to investigate and report, for the information of the President, upon the civil and military administration in the military division bordering upon and west of the Mississippi, under such instructions as shall be issued by authority of the President and the War Department. Second. Said commissioners shall have power to examine witnesses upon oath, and to take such proofs, orally or in writing, upon the subject-matters of investigation as they may deem expedient, and return the same together with their report. Third. All officers and persons in the military, naval, and revenue services, or in any branch of the public service under the authority of the United States Government, are required, upon subpoena issued by direction of the said commissioners, to appear before them at such time and place as may be designated in said subpoena and to give testimony on oath touching such matters as may be inquired of by the commissioners, and to produce such books, papers, writings, and documents as they may be notified or required to produce by the commissioners, and as may be in their possession. Fourth. Said special commissioners shall also investigate and report upon any other matters that may hereafter be directed by the Secretary of War, and shall, with all convenient dispatch, make report to him in writing of their investigation, and shall also from time to time make special reports to the Secretary of War upon such matters as they may deem of importance to the public interests. Fifth. The Secretary of War shall assign to the said commissioners such aid and assistance as may be required for the performance of their duties, and make such just and reasonable allowances and compensation for the said commissioners and for the persons employed by them as he may deem proper. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Joseph Roberts
[c. December 10, 1864]
It is confessed in this case that Samuels when arrested, had on his person a paper prima facie showing that he was going North to obtain medical supplies for the rebels. Will the officer in command at Fort-Monroe  please give him an opportunity of trying to prove that this was not his real object, and report the evidence, with his opinion on it, to me? A. LINCOLN Let the Prisoner Samuels be discharged. A. LINCOLN Dec. 10. 1864

To Edward R. S. Canby
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Canby: Dec 12, 1864.
I think it is probable that you are laboring under some misapprehension as to the purpose, or rather the motive of the government on two points--- Cotton , and the new Louisiana State Government. It is conceded that the military operations are the first in importance; and as to what is indispensable to these operations, the Department Commander must be judge and master. But the other matters mentioned, I suppose to be of public importance also; and what I have attempted in regard to them, is not merely a concession to private interest and pecuniary greed. As to cotton. By the external blockade, the price is made certainly six times as great as it was. And yet the enemy gets through at least one sixth part as much in a given period, say a year, as if there were no blockade, and receives as much for it, as he would for a full crop in time of peace. The effect in substance is, that we give him six ordinary crops, without the trouble of producing any but the first; and at the same time leave his fields and his laborers free to produce provisions. You know how this keeps up his armies at home, and procures supplies from abroad. For other reasons we cannot give up the blockade, and hence it becomes immensely important to us to get the cotton away from him. Better give him guns for it, than let him, as now, get both guns and ammunition for it. But even this only presents part of the public interest to get out cotton. Our finances are greatly involved in the matter. The way cotton goes now carries so much gold out of the country as to leave us paper currency only, and that so far depreciated, as that for every hard dollar's worth of supplies we obtain, we contract to pay two and a half hard dollars hereafter. This is much to be regretted; and while I believe we can live through it at all events, it demands an earnest effort on the part of all to correct it. And if pecuniary greed can be made to aid us in such effort, let us be thankful that so much good can be got out of pecuniary greed. As to the new State Government of Louisiana. Most certainly there is no worthy object in getting up a piece of machinery merely to pay salaries, and give political consideration to certain men. But it is a worthy object to again get Louisiana into proper practical relations with the nation; and we can never finish this, if we never begin it. Much good work is already done, and surely nothing can be gained by throwing it away. I do not wish either cotton or the new State Government to take precedence of the military, while the necessity for the military remains; but there is a strong public reason for treating each with so much favor as may not be substantially detrimental to the military. Allow me a word of explanation in regard to the telegram which you kindly forwarded to Admiral Faragut for me.  That telegram was prompted by a piece of secret information inducing me to suspect that the use of a forged paper might be attempted on the Admiral, in order to base a claim that we had raised our own blockade. I am happy in the hope that you are almost well of your late and severe wound Yours very truly,

To Henry S. Lane

Will Senator H. S. Lane please call and see me at once. Dec. 12, 1864 A. LINCOLN

Order for Discharge of Thomas Rice and Reuben Turner
December 12, 1864
At the request of Hon. Mr. Randall of Ky, it is ordered that Thomas Rice prisoner of War at Rock-Island, and Reuben Turner, prisoner of war at Johnson's Island, be discharged, on taking the oath of Dec. 8. 1863. A. LINCOLN Dec. 12. 1864

To Cyrus Wick
Executive Mansion Washington My Dear Sir 12 De[ce]mber 1864
I take pleasure in acknowledgeing the receipt of your letter and poem and in thanking you for your kindness Yours very truly A. LINCOLN

To Grenville M. Dodge
Major Gen. Dodge Executive Mansion St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Dec. 13. 1864
Please suspend the sending South of Mrs. Nancy H. Thompson, wife of Gideon H. Thompson, of Platte Co. Mo. but now in rebel army, until further order, & in mean time, ascertain and report to me whether there is any thing, & what, against her, except that her husband is a rebel. A. LINCOLN

To Ira Goodnow

I shall be glad if Capt. Goodenow can & will find a suitable position for this fine little boy. A. LINCOLN Dec. 13, 1864

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 13, 1864
I transmit to the Senate, for consideration with a view to ratification, ``a treaty of amity, commerce, and navigation, and for the extradition of fugitive criminals, between the United States of America and the Republic of Hayti, signed by their respective plenipotentiaries at Port-au-Prince on the 3d of November'' last. Washington, December 13, 1864. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: December 13, 1864
I transmit to the Senate, for consideration with a view to ratification, ``a treaty of friendship, commerce, and navigation between the United States of America and the Republic of Honduras,'' signed by their respective plenipotentiaries, at Comayagua, on the 4th of July (1864) last. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, December 13, 1864.

To Lewis Wallace
Major General Wallace Executive Mansion Baltimore, Md. Washington, Dec. 13. 1864
Do not send Levin L. Waters and the judges away, until further order; and send me at once a statement of the cause or causes for which they are dealt with. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. General Grant. Executive Mansion, City-Point, Va. Washington, Dec. 14. 1864.
Please have execution of John McNulty, alias Joseph Riley, Co. E. 6. N.H. Vols. suspended, and record sent to me. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward

Will the Sec. of State please call at once? A. LINCOLN Dec. 14. 1864

To James Speed

Send me a nomination for Gooding. A. LINCOLN Dec. 14. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 14, 1864
I think a man who offers to volunteer and is rejected, should not afterwards be drafted and forced to serve. This lady alleges that such is the case of her husband. Please have the case investigated and reported on.

To William P. Fessenden

Will the Secretary of the Treasury please see & hear Mr. Gumpert, so well vouched within? A. LINCOLN Dec. 15, 1864

To Caleb H. Carlton
Officer in command at Executive Mansion, Chattanooga Tenn. Washington, Dec. 16. 1864.
It is said that Harry Walters private in the Anderson Cavalry is now, and for a long time has been in prison at Chattanooga. Please report to me what is his condition, and for what he is imprisoned. A. LINCOLN

Pass for William Y. Dulin

Allow this gentleman to pass to Fairfax Co. Virginia. Dec. 16, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To George H. Thomas
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Thomas War Department, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, D.C., Dec. 16. 1864.
Please accept for yourself, officers, and men, the nation's thanks for your good work of yesterday. You made a magnificent beginning. A grand consummation is within your easy reach. Do not let it slip. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles

Allow the bearer to bring me the record containing the evidence in the case of Capt. Reynolds. A. LINCOLN Dec. 17. 1864

To Joseph K. Barnes
Executive Mansion Washington Surgeon General, Dec. 19, 1864
Please have an examination made of Corporal Charles H. Thompson of Co. B. 11th N.H. Vols. in the 9th Corps, with reference to discharge for physical disability Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph H. Choate
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 19, 1864.
My Dear Sir---I have the honor to acknowledge the reception of your kind invitation to be present at the annual festival of the New England Society to commemorate the landing of the Pilgrims, on Thursday, the 22d of this month. My duties will not allow me to avail myself of your kindness. I cannot but congratulate you and the country, however, upon the spectacle of devoted unanimity presented by the people at home, the citizens that form our marching columns, and the citizens that fill our squadrons on the sea---all animated by the same determination to complete and perpetuate the work our fathers began and transmitted. The work of the Plymouth emigrants was the glory of their age. While we reverence their memory, let us not forget how vastly greater is our opportunity. I am very truly, your obedient servant, Joseph H. Choate, Esq. A. LINCOLN.

To Ladies Managing the Soldiers' Fair at Springfield, Massachusetts
The ladies managing the Executive Mansion, Soldier's Fair at Washington, Springfield, Massachusetts. Dec. 19, 1864.
Your kind invitation to be present at the opening of your Fair is duly received by the hand of Mr. Ashmun. Grateful for the compliment, and ever anxious to aid the good cause in which you are engaged, I yet am compelled by public duties here, to decline. The recent good news from Generals Sherman, Thomas, and indeed from nearly all quarters, will be far better than my presence, and will afford all the impulse, and enthusiasm, you will need Your Obt. Servt A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Calling for 300,000 Volunteers
December 19, 1864
By the President of the United States: A Proclamation. Whereas, by the act approved July 4, 1864, entitled ``An Act further to regulate and provide for the enrolling and calling out the national forces, and for other purposes,'' it is provided that the President of the United States may, ``at his discretion, at any time hereafter, call for any number of men, as volunteers, for the respective terms of one, two, and three years, for military service,'' and ``that in case the quota, or any part thereof, of any town, township, ward of a city, precinct, or election district, or of any county not so sub-divided, shall not be filled within the space of fifty days after such call, then the President shall immediately order a draft for one year, to fill such quota, or any part thereof, which may be unfilled:'' And whereas by the credits allowed in accordance with the act of Congress on the call for five hundred thousand men made July 18th. 1864, the number of men to be obtained under that call was reduced to two hundred and eighty thousand; and whereas the operations of the enemy in certain States have rendered it impracticable to procure from them their full quotas of troops under said call; and whereas, from the foregoing causes, but two hundred and forty thousand men have been put into the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps under the said call of July 18, 1864, leaving a deficiency on that call of two hundred and sixty thousand: (260,000): Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, in order to supply the aforesaid deficiency, and to provide for casualties in the military and naval service of the United States, do issue this my call for three hundred thousand (300,000) volunteers to serve for one, two, or three years. The quotas of the States, districts, and sub-districts under this call will be assigned by the War Department through the Bureau of the Provost Marshal General of the United States, and, ``in case the quota or any part thereof of any town, township, ward of a city, precinct or election district, or of any county not so sub-divided, shall not be filled'' before the fifteenth day of February, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, then a draft shall be made to fill such quota, or any part thereof, under this call, which may be unfilled on said fifteenth day of February 1865. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the city of Washington, this nineteenth day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-four; and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To Lewis Wallace
Executive Mansion Major General Wallace Washington, Dec. 19. 1864
Several days ago I sent you a despatch directing that one Waters and two others should not be sent away immediately, and asking you to send me a statement of the cause or causes of your action in regard to them. I have received nothing from you on the subject. May I against [ sic ] ask for such statement? and also where the men now are? A LINCOLN

To Lewis Wallace
Major General Wallace Executive Mansion, Baltimore, Md. Washington, Dec. 19, 1864.
To whom were the reports sent? I have not received them A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin W. Brice
December 20, 1864
Will the Pay-Master-General please inform Hon. Mr. Eckley what is the trouble about Col. Fyffe's pay, & whether there is any thing the President can lawfully do about it. A. LINCOLN Dec. 20, 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Secretary of War please see & hear this man. Dec. 20, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Lewis Wallace
Major General Wallace Executive Mansion Baltimore, Md. Washington, Dec. 20. 1864
Suspend execution of James P. Boileau, until further order from here. A LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Butler Dec. 21, 1864.
On the 9th. of August last I began to write you a letter, the inclosed being a copy of so much as I then wrote. So far as it goes, it embraces the views I then entertained, and still entertain. A little relaxation of complaints made to me on the subject, occurring about that time, the letter was not finished and sent. I now learn, correctly I suppose, that you have ordered an election, similar to the one mentioned, to take place on the Eastern Shore of Virginia. Let this be suspended, at least until conferrence with me, and obtaining my approval. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Mrs A Lincoln Washington Continental Hotel Dec. 21. 1864
Do not come on the night train. It is too cold. Come in the morning. A. LINCOLN Please send above and oblige the President. JOHN HAY A.P.S.

Pass for Slaughter S. Bradford
December 21, 1864
Allow the bearer, S. S. Bradford, to pass by any route to his home in Culpeper Co. Va, and there to remain so long as he does not misbehave. A. LINCOLN Dec. 21. 1864.

To Edwin M. Stanton
December 21, 1864
Submitted to the Secretary of War. The recommendations are excellent, & it is said that Col. Post was wounded, perhaps mortally at the late battles in front of Nashville. I commend the case to the special attention of the Secretary A. LINCOLN Dec. 21, 1864

Approval of Treasury Regulation No. 55
Executive Mansion December 22. 1864.
I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, having seen and considered the within amended Regulation numbered LV. prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, do hereby approve of the same, and I further declare and order that products moving in compliance with the said Regulation shall be exempt from seizure and from confiscation and forfeiture to the United States. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To John B. Majors
Officer in command at Executive Mansion, St. Joseph, Mo. Washington, Dec. 22, 1864.
Postpone the execution of Higswith, Holland & Way, for twenty days. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning John Bliss
Executive Mansion Dec. 22, 1864
To-day John Bliss, of Co. L in 1st Vermont Cavalry, comes to me voluntarily, under apprehension of being treated as a deserter. Now on condition that he returns to his regiment at once and faithfully serves out his term . . . he is fully pardoned. A. LINCOLN

Pass for James Harrison
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 22, 1864.
Allow Mr. James Harrison, of St. Louis, Mo. at such point as he may choose, to pass our military lines, once and return, at his pleasure. A. LINCOLN

To James Speed

Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. Dec. 22, 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Adoniram J. Warner
Officer in command at Executive Mansion Indianapolis, Ia. Washington, Dec. 22. 1864
Postpone, the execution of John Doyle Lennan alias Thomas Doyle, for ten days. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

If the facts within stated be shown to be true, let the transfer be made. A. LINCOLN Dec. 23. 1864

Order Concerning James Harrison
Executive Mansion, Washington, December 23, 1864.
All Military and Naval commanders will please give to James Harrison, Esq. of St. Louis, Missouri, (with any number of  SteamBoats not exceeding three, taking in tow any number of barges, scows, flats, and the like, not having steam power, which they may be able to so take, with  such goods & money, as the Treasury agents may grant permits for under the rules of the Dept. and none other, and only with crews to navigate the whole, and necessary provisions for himself and said crews,) protection and safe conduct from New-Orleans  or Memphis to Red River, and up said river and its tributaries, till he shall pass beyond our Military lines, and also give him such protection and safe conduct on his return to our lines, back to New-Orleans  or Memphis, with any cargoes he may bring; and on his safe return from beyond our lines, with said boats and tows, allow him to repeat once or twice if he shall desire. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Robert K. Stone

Will Dr. Stone please make me a prescription for a ring worm? Dec. 23, 1864. A. LINCOLN.

To Thomas J. Durant
Executive Mansion, Washington, My Dear Sir December 24, 1864.
I have received the elegantly-mounted volume, commemorative of the celebration in honor of the passage of the Ordinance of Emancipation of the State of Louisiana, held on the 11th of June, in New Orleans, which you, in behalf of the following citizens of that State: Henry Raymond, Francois Boisdore, John Smith, Peter Hillud [Hillard?], Robert Smith, A. L. Young, Henry Chevanne [Chevunne? Chevarre?], Lawrence Quanders, Rev. Geo. W. Steptoe, Rev. R. H. Steptoe, and Rev. S. W. Rogers, have had the goodness to transmit to me.  I beg that you will express to the donors the assurance of my grateful appreciation of their kindness, and that you will accept my personal acknowledgements for the manner in which you have conveyed this manifestation of their regard. I am very truly Your Obedient Servant Thomas J Durant Esq

EndorsementConcerning Samuel D. Lockwood

Judge Lockwood, the writer, is one of the best men in the world. File. A.L. Dec. 24, 1864.

To Joseph Holt
December 24, 1864
Judge Advocate General please report to me on this case. Dec. 24, 1864 A. LINCOLN Pardon for unexecuted part of sentence. A. LINCOLN Jan. 26, 1865

To John McClelland
John McClelland Executive Mansion Nashville, Tenn. Washington, Dec. 24. 1864
A letter of yours is laid before me, in which you seek to have John S. Young, James Mallory & R. T. Bridges released, adding ``My word for it they are innocent.'' It is fair to presume that you would not say this without knowing what you say to be true. But a telegraphic despatch of Gov. Johnson, now before me, says of this very man Mallory ``has been guilty of the most outrageous and atrocious murders known to civilization'' and that ``the punishment of death is not half atonement for the crimes he has committed on the defenceless & unoffending Union-men of the country'' As I know Gov. Johnson would not purposely misle[a]d me, I think it be well for you to communicate the particulars of your information to him. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
December 24, 1864
Gen. C. S. Todd, once much of a man, is now superannuated, and would be an incumbrance upon the Commander in New-Orleans, unjustifiable in me to impose upon him. A. LINCOLN Dec. 24. 1864.

To William T. Sherman
Executive Mansion, Washington, My dear General Sherman. Dec. 26, 1864.
Many, many, thanks for your Christmas-gift---the capture of Savannah. When you were about leaving Atlanta for the Atlantic coast, I was anxious , if not fearful; but feeling that you were the better judge, and remembering that ``nothing risked, nothing gained'' I did not interfere. Now, the undertaking being a success, the honor is all yours; for I believe none of us went farther than to acquiesce. And, taking the work of Gen. Thomas into the count, as it should be taken, it is indeed a great success. Not only does it afford the obvious and immediate military advantages; but, in showing to the world that your army could be divided, putting the stronger part to an important new service, and yet leaving enough to vanquish the old opposing force of the whole---Hood's army---it brings those who sat in darkness, to see a great light. But what next? I suppose it will be safer if I leave Gen. Grant and yourself to decide. Please make my grateful acknowledgments to your whole army, officers and men. Yours very truly A. LINCOLN.

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Secretary of the Navy. Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Dec. 26. 1864.
The unexecuted part of the sentence of the General Court-Martial in the case of Com. Charles Wilkes, U.S.N. is hereby remitted, this remission to take effect at the end of one year from the day on which the sentence took effect. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To J. Bates Dickson
Officer in Command at Executive Mansion Lexington, Ky: Washington, Dec. 27. 1864
If within your power, send me the particulars of the causes for which Lieut. Govr. Jacobs was arrested and sent away. A. LINCOLN

To Haidie M. Jones
Executive Mansion Washington, Miss Haidie M. Jones. Dec 27. 1864
I have received your pretty present by the hand of Hon. Mr Ashley, and for which please accept my thanks Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John Maclean
Executive Mansion, Washington, My Dear Sir December 27, 1864.
I have the honour to acknowledge the reception of your note of the 20th of December, conveying the announcement that the Trustees of the College of New Jersey have conferred upon me the Degree of Doctor of Laws. The assurance conveyed by this high compliment, that the course of the government which I represent has received the approval of a body of gentlemen of such character and intelligence in this time of public trial, is most grateful to me. Thoughtful men must feel that the fate of civilization upon this continent is involved in the issue of our contest. Among the most gratifying proofs of this conviction is the hearty devotion everywhere exhibited by our schools and colleges to the national cause. I am most thankful if my labors have seemed to conduce to the preservation of those institutions under which alone we can expect good government and in its train sound learning and the progress of the liberal arts. I am sir very truly Your Obedient Servant A. LINCOLN Dr. John MacLean

Memorandum: Appointment of William H. Lee
[c. December 27, 1864]
West-Point. Mr. Lee, the father, was in the Ills. Leg. 1854-5.

Memorandum: Appointment of Franklin Yeaton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 27, 1864.
I this morning promise Mr. Fessenden that when I shall appoint the ten cadets at large for the now incoming year, Franklin Yeaton shall be one. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning William N. Symington

Allow William Symington, now a prisoner at Fort Warren to leave there and report to me now at Washington. A. LINCOLN. December 27, 1864.

Order for Hanson A. Risley
December 27. 1864
I, H A Risley agent for the purchase of products of insurrectionary states on behalf of the Government of the United States at Norfolk Va. do hereby certify that I have agreed to purchase from I. Seymour ten thousand bales of Cotton and one million feet of Lumber, which products it is represented are or will be at points on or near the lines of the United States forces in the State of Florida on or before the first day of May 1865 and which he stipulates shall be delivered to me unless prevented from so doing by the authority of the United States. I therefore request safe conduct for the said Seymour and his agents and his means of transportation and said products from the points on or near the lines of the United States forces in Florida aforesaid to Fernindena when the products so transported are to be sold and delivered to me under the stipulations referred to above and pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury H A RISLEY Sup. Spl Agt & Executive Mansion Dec 27. 1864 An authorised agent of the Treasury Department having with the approval of the secretary of the Treasury contracted for the products above mentioned and the party having agreed to sell and deliver the same to such agent, it is ordered, that products moving in compliance with and for fulfilment of said contract and being transported to such agent or under his direction shall be free from seizure or detention by any officer of the Government: and commandants of military departments, districts, posts and detachments, naval stations, gunboats, flotillas and fleets, will observe this order and give the said Seymour his agents and means of transportation free and unmolested passage for the purpose of getting said products through the lines, other than blockaded lines, and safe conduct within our lines, while the same are moving in compliance with Regulations of the secretary of the Treasury and for fulfilment of said contract with the agent of the Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Butler War Department, Fort-Monroe, Va Washington, D.C., Dec. 28. 1864.
I think you will find that the Provost-Marshal on the Eastern Shore has, as by your authority, issued an order, not for a meeting , but for an election . The order printed in due form was shown to me, but as I did not retain it I can not give you a copy. If the people on their own motion wish to hold a peaceful meeting I suppose you need not to hinder them. A LINCOLN

To John G. Foster
Executive Mansion, General: Washington, 28 December, 1864.
The bearer, Mr. Charles D. Chase, visits your Department on business. He is a gentleman with whom I am personally acquainted and whom I can commend to your courteous consideration. Yours very truly A LINCOLN Major General Foster

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, Washington, D.C., City-Point, Va. Dec. 28. 5/30. P.M. 1864.
If there is no objection, please tell me what you now understand of the Wilmington expedition, present & prospective. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Let this man, Louis A. Welton be enlarged, the sentence against him standing as a security for his good behavior. A. LINCOLN Dec. 28. 1864.

To John F. Miller
Officer in command at Executive Mansion, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, Dec. 28. 1864.
Suspend execution of James R. Mallory, for six weeks from Friday the 30th. of this month, which time I have given his friends, to make proof, if they can, upon certain points. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Francis P. Blair, Sr.

Allow the bearer, F.P. Blair, Senr. to pass our lines, go South and return A. LINCOLN Dec. 28. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

The writer of this is Gen. Grant's father. Let Mr. McKenezie be appointed if his services are needed. A. LINCOLN Dec. 28. 1864

To Edwin M. Stanton

I specially request that the Secretary of War give a hearing to these men---representatives of Co. F of 4. Mass. Heavy Artillery. Dec. 28. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Butler Dec. 29, 1864.
There is a man in Co I. 11th. Conn. Vols. 1 Brigade 3. Division 24th. Army Corps, at Chapins Farm, Va, under the assumed name of Wm. Stanley, but whose real name is Frank R. Judd; and who is under arrest, and probably about to be tried for desertion. He is the son of our present Minister to Prussia, who is a close personal friend of Senator Trumbull and myself. We are not willing for the boy to be shot, but we think it as well that his trial go regularly on, suspending execution until further order from me & reporting to me A. LINCOLN

To Thomas B. Fairleigh
Officer in command at Executive Mansion, Louisville Kentucky Washington, Dec. 29th, 1864.
Suspend execution of death sentence of George S. Owen until further orders, and forward record of trial for examination. Maj. Eckert A. LINCOLN Please send the above telegram Yours JNO G NICOLAY

To James Speed
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Attorney General Dec. 29, 1864.
Please give me your opinion in writing whether the Secretary of the Navy, or any of his subordinates, is bound in law, on application of individuals, to furnish exemplified copies of records, or parts of records, of Naval Courts-Martial, on file in the Navy Department. Also, whether the Secretary of the Navy, or any of his subordinates is bound in law to answer to a Commission of a State court, directing the taking of his or their testimony, as to the contents of records of Naval Courts-Martial on file in the Navy Department. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

If the services are needed let this appointment be made. Dec. 29, 1864 A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

Send some papers in these cases. A. LINCOLN. Dec. 30, 1864

Endorsement

Send me papers in this case. A. LINCOLN Dec. 30, 1864

To Elijah C. Middleton
Mr. E.C. Middleton Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, Dec. 30, 1864.
Your picture presented by Mr. Lutz is, in the main, very good. From a line across immediately above the eye-brows, downward it appears to me perfect. Above such line I think it is not so good,---that is, while it gives perhaps a better fore-head, it is not quite true to the original. If you were present I could tell you wherein, but I can not well do so on paper. The next best thing I suppose would be to carefully study a photograph Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Adoniram J. Warner
Executive Mansion Washington Col. Warner---Indianapolis, Ia. Dec. 30. 1864
It is said that you were on the Court-Martial that tried John Lennan, and that you are disposed to advise his being pardoned and sent to his regiment. If this be true, telegraph me to that effect at once. A. LINCOLN

To Ethan A. Hitchcock

Gen. Hitchcock, please see & hear this lady. Dec. 31. 1864. A. LINCOLN

Order Designating Offices to Receive Subscriptions to Union Pacific Railroad
December 31, 1864
By the authority conferred upon the President of the United States by the 2d. section of the act of Congress, approved July 2d., 1864, entitled ``An act to amend an act to aid in the construction of a Railroad and Telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean,'' &c. &c. I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby designate the Merchants' National Bank, Boston; the Chicago and Rock Island Railroad Company's Office, Chicago; the First National Bank at---Philadelphia; the First National Bank at Baltimore; the First National Bank at---Cincinnati; and the Third National Bank at St. Louis, in addition to the General Office of the Union Pacific Railroad Company, in the city of New York, as the places at which the said Union Pacific Railroad Company shall cause books to be kept open to receive subscriptions to the capital stock of said Company. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, D.C. December 31st., 1864.

To James Speed

Attorney General please make out pardons in these two cases. Dec. 31. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Secretary of War. Dec. 31, 1864.
You may remember that some time in June last (I think) an Assistant Inspector General on Col. Speer's  staff, in Gen. Butler's army, by name Andrew J. Smith, was convicted of a rape upon a colored girl. Gen. Butler, Mr. Holt, and yourself, each in turn, on examination of the evidence, thought there was no doubt of his guilt, while I thought there was some slight room for doubt on the question of personal identification [ sic ]. I concluded however, to let him suffer a while, and then discharge him. Twice within two or three weeks I made a short order for his pardon for the unexecuted part of the sentence, which, however it seems has not yet been done. Let it be done now. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Please send me the papers within refered to. Dec. 31. 1864 A. LINCOLN

To Adoniram J. Warner
Col. A.J. Warner Executive Mansion, Washington, Indianapolis, Ia. Decr. 31. 1864.
Suspend execution of John Lennan until further order from me & in the mean time send me the record of his trial. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

This application is made on the idea that the incumbent is to go out at the end of four years. A.L.

Endorsement

Will Sec. of Treasury and Comr. of Int. Revenue, please file & preserve. A LINCOLN 21. 1865.

Endorsement Concerning Robert H. Hendershot
[c. January 1, 1865]
I know something of this boy, and believe he is very brave, manly and worthy. A. LINCOLN.

To Salmon P. Chase
Chief Justice Chase Executive Mansion My dear Sir: Washington, Jan. 2. 1865.
Without your note of to-day, I should have felt assured that some sufficient reason had detained you. Allow me to condole with you in the sad bereavement you mention Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Reply to a Delegation of Kentuckians
January 2, 1865
You howled when Butler went to New-Orleans. Others howled when he was removed from that command. Somebody has been howling ever since at his assignment to military command. How long will it be before you, who are howling for his assignment to rule Kentucky, will be howling to me to remove him?

To William H. Seward
Executive Mansion Washington, Hon. Sec. of State Jan. 3. 1865
A hungarian by the name of Foegelmeisy, was on Gen. Stahl's staff, and by his going out of active service is thrown out. Some of our Pennsylvania friends are desirous to get him a Consulship. Can you find one for him? If you can, I will ascertain the Christian name. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.

To James Speed

Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. Jan. 3, 1865. A. LINCOLN

Cotton Permit for Fergus Peniston
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 4th. 1865.
Whereas satisfactory evidence, has been furnished to me by Fergus Peniston, that he is now and was prior to April 1864 the legitimate owner of large amounts of cotton and naval stores situated in Louisiana and Southern Mississippi and reposing special trust and confidence in said Peniston, I do by these presents, authorize him to proceed with steamboats barges and other conveyances, at his own risk, up and down the Mississippi river and land at any points on said river between Natchez & Port Hudson, also up and down Red river and its tributaries and navigate the waters of Lakes Pontchartrain & Borgne to and from East & West Pascagoula and mouth of Pearl River and up and down Pearl & Pascagoula Rivers for the purpose of bringing out Twenty three Thousand Six Hundred & Forty Bales of Cotton and Seventeen Thousand Two Hundred Barrels of naval stores and continue said voyages until this stated amount of cotton & naval stores shall have been brought by him to new orleans. And in order to secure the products specified in this permit, I do furthermore authorize said Peniston to take on his boats or conveyances outside the Military lines of the United States and carry to any of the above designated localities, plantation supplies to the extent of Thirty per cent of the value of the cotton or naval stores brought to new orleans by his vessels. Nothing in this permit is to be so construed as to prevent said Peniston from disposing of said cotton or naval stores in new orleans or new york at his option, after payment of the Internal Revenue & other taxes, fixed by Congress, not including however the Twenty five per cent tax. All officers of the army or navy of the United States & civil officers of the Government are hereby particularly required not only to not obstruct but to extend to said Peniston all facilities that may be required to carry out the design of this permit which is the introduction of cotton and naval stores within the Military lines of the United States.

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 4, 1865
I did promise Gen. Logan that this appointment should be made if it consistently could , and I personally carried the paper to Col. Hardie who will inform the Secretary of War all about it. Jan. 4. 1865. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 4, 1865
I think this order should be so modified as to allow unrestricted trade from Kentucky across the Ohio river. Will the Secretary of War, please see Mr. Marshall, the bearer, & consider the matter? Jan. 4. 1865. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Jan. 4, 1865.
You remember that upon consultation with me you ordered two men arrested by Gen. Wallace to be discharged, and the third, a Mr. Waters, to be held for trial. As Waters is a State Senator elect, I think extra effort to give him a speedy trial should be made, so as to avoid injurious inferrences arising. Please attend to this. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To John Williams
John Williams Executive Mansion Springfield, Ills. Washington Jan. 4. 1865
Let Trumbo's substitute be regularly mustered in, send me the evidence that it is done and I will then discharge Trumbo. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Genl. Grant Executive Mansion, City-Point, Va Washington, Jan. 5, 1864.
Richard T. Jacob, Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky, is at the Spotswood---House in Richmond under an order of Gen. Burbridge not to return to Kentucky. Please communicate leave to him to pass your lines, and come to me here at Washington. A. LINCOLN

To the House of Representatives
January 5, 1865
To the House of Representatives of the United States. I herewith return to your honorable body, in which it originated, a ``Joint Resolution to correct certain clerical errors in the Internal Revenue Act'' without my approval. My reason for so doing is, that I am informed that this Joint Resolution was prepared during the last moments of the last session of Congress, for the purpose of correcting certain errors of reference in the Internal Revenue Act, which were discovered on an examination of an official copy procured from the State Department, a few hours only before the adjournment. It passed the House and went to the Senate, where a vote was taken upon it, but by some accident it was not presented to the President of the Senate for his Signature. Since the adjournment of the last session of Congress, other errors of a kind similar to those, which this resolution was designed to correct, have been discovered in the law, and it is now thought most expedient to include all the necessary corrections in one Act or Resolution. The attention of the proper Committee of the House, has I am informed, been already directed to the preparation of a bill for this purpose. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Executive Mansion, January 5, 1865.

Order Permitting Robert E. Coxe to Bring Products through the Lines
Executive Mansion, January 5, 1865
An authorized agent of the Treasury Department having, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, contracted for the cotton and other products above mentioned,  and the party having agreed to sell and deliver the same to such agent. It is ordered that the cotton and other products, moving in compliance with, and for fulfilment of said contract, and being transported to said agent, or under his direction, shall be free from seizure or detention by any officer of the government, and, commandants of military Departments, districts, posts and detachments, naval stations, gun boats, flotilla's and floats [fleets] will observe this order, and give the said Robert E Coxe, his agents and transports, free and unmolested passage for the purpose of getting the said cotton or any part thereof through the lines, other than blockaded lines, and safe conduct within our lines while the same is moving in strict compliance with the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, and for fulfilment of said contract with the agent of the government ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Passes for James W. Singleton

Allow the bearer James W Singleton, to pass our lines with ordinary baggage, and go South A LINCOLN Jany 5. 1865 Allow the bearer James W Singleton to pass our lines, with any Southern products, and go to any of our trading posts, there to be subject to the Regulations of the Treasury Department Jany 5. 1865 A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir, Washington, Jan. 5, 1865.
Since parting with you, it has occurred to me to say that while Gen. Sherman's `` get a good ready '' is appreciated, and is not to be overlooked, time , now that the enemy is wavering, is more important than ever before. Being on the down-hill, & some what confused, keeping him going. Please say so much to Genl. S. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Napoleon J. T. Dana
Executive Mansion Washington Major General Dana Jany 6 1865
The attached document perporting to be an order issued by your authority, is sent you with the request that you will inform me whether such order has been issued by you, and if it has, please inform me by what authority it is that you undertake to impose terms in the premises not imposed by the government and which in effect, entirely thwart and defeat the object of the government It is suggested that if executing in good faith the order of the government in the matter in question, or any other matter, operates injuriously to the Military Service, it would be proper for you to report to the government fully upon it, and that would be the only proper course Yours &c A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Gen. Grant Executive Mansion, Washington, City Point Jan. 6. 1865
If there is a man at City-Point, by the name of Waterman Thornton who is in trouble about desertion, please have his case briefly stated to me & do not let him be executed meantime A LINCOLN

Endorsement

This boy having served faithfully since is pardoned for the old desertion A. LINCOLN Jan. 7. 1865

To Richard L. Ferguson
R. L. Ferguson Executive Mansion Provost-Marshal Washington, Warrensburg, Mo Jan. 7. 1865.
Suspend, until further order, proceedings to enforce a bong  given by Hicklin, Hicklin & Spratt. It is not my view of the law that Provost-Marshals are to decide whether bonds are or are not forfeited. A LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
January 7, 1865
To the Senate and House of Representatives. I transmit to Congress a copy of two Treaties between the United States and Belgium, for the extinguishment of the Scheldt dues, &c, concluded on the 20th of May, 1863, and 20th of July, 1863, respectively, the ratifications of which were exchanged at Brussels on the 24th of June last, and I recommend an appropriation to carry into effect the provisions thereof relative to the payment of the proportion of the United States towards the capitalization of the said dues. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, January 7th 1865.

To Schuyler Colfax
Hon. Schuyler Colfax, Executive Mansion, Speaker, House of Representatives, Washington, Sir, January 9 1865.
I transmit herewith the letter of the Secretary of War with accompanying report of the Adjutant General, in reply to the Resolution of the House of Representatives, dated December 7, 1864, requesting me ``to communicate to the House the Report made by Colonel Thomas M. Key, of an interview between himself and General Howell Cobb on the 14th day of June, 1862, on the bank of the Chickahominy, on the subject of the exchange of prisoners of war.'' I am, Sir, Very Respectfully, Your obdt. servant, ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Mrs. Milton C. Egbert
Executive Mansion Washington, Mrs. Milton C. Egbert. Jan. 9. 1865
Col. Forney assures me that you will not be displeased if I tender, as I most heartily do, my sincere thanks for your munificient Christmas donation of five thousand dollars to the sick and wounded soldiers in the Philadelphia hospitals. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Charles J. Faulkner
Mrs. Faulkner:  Executive Mansion, Madam Washington, Jany. 9. 1865.
It was with regret I learned that your brother, whom I had ordered to be discharged on taking the oath, under the impression that he was a private , is a captain . By an understanding the Commissary of prisoners detains such cases until a further hearing from me. I now distinctly say that if your Father shall come within our lines and take the oath of Dec. 8. 1863, I will give him a full pardon, and will, at the same time, discharge your brother on his taking the oath, notwithstanding he is a captain. Respectfully A. LINCOLN.

To John B. Majors
Officer in command Executive Mansion, Washington, at St. Joseph, Missouri. January 9, 1865.
Postpone the execution of the death sentence of Holland, High-smith and Utz ten days longer unless you receive orders from me to the contrary A. LINCOLN. Maj. Eckert Please send the above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY Jan'y 9th 1865.

Order Concerning Solomon Young
Executive Mansion, Washington, Jan 9, 1865
Let Solomon Young be examined to ascertain whether he possesses the physical qualifications for a soldier, in which case he will be discharged from confinement in jail and enrolled as a substitute for William D McMahon drafted in the first Ward of this city. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States January 9, 1865
In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the 15th. ultimo, requesting information concerning an arrangement limiting the Naval Armament on the Lakes, I transmit a Report of this date from the Secretary of State, to whom the Resolution was referred. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington 9th. January 1865

To Lyman Trumbull
Hon. Lyman Trumbull, Executive Mansion, My dear Sir: Washington, January 9, 1865.
The paper, relating to Louisiana, submitted to the Judiciary Committee of the Senate, by Gen. Banks, is herewith returned. The whole of it is in accordance with my general impression, and I believe it to be true; but much the larger part is beyond my absolute knowledge , as in it's nature it must be. All the statements which lie within the range of my knowledge are strictly true; and I think of nothing material which has been omitted. Even before Gen. Banks went to Louisiana I was anxious for the loyal people there to move for re-organization and restoration of proper practical relations with the Union; and when he, at last, expressed his decided conviction that the thing was practicable, I directed him to give his official co-operation to effect it. On the subject, I have sent and received many letters to and from Gen. Banks and many other persons. These letters, as you remember, were shown to you yesterday, as they will be again, if you desire. If I shall neither take sides nor argue, will it be out of place for me to make what I think is the true statement of your question as to the proposed Louisiana Senators? ``Can Louisiana be brought into proper practical relations with the Union, sooner, by admitting or by rejecting the proposed Senators?''  Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, Jan. 10. 1865
No principal report of yours on the Wilmington expedition has ever reached the War Department, as I am informed there. A preliminary report did reach here, but was returned to Gen. Grant at his request. Of course, leave to publish, can not be given, without inspection of the paper, and not then, if it should be deemed to be detrimental to the public service. A. LINCOLN

To John W. Garrett
Mr. J. W. Garrett Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Washington, Jan. 10. 1865
It is said we shall soon all be in the dark here, unless you can bring coal to make gas. I suppose you would do this, without my interference, if you could; and I only write now to say, it is very important to us ; and not to say that you must stop supplying the army to make room to carry coal. Do all you can for us in both matters . Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Concerning Commerce
January 10, 1865
By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation . Whereas, the Act of Congress of the 28th. of September 1850, entitled ``An act to create additional collection districts in the State of California and to change the existing districts therein, and to modify the existing collection districts in the United States,'' extends to merchandise warehoused under bond the privilege of being exported to the British North American Provinces, adjoining the United States, in the manner prescribed in the Act of Congress of the 3d. of March 1845, which designates certain frontier ports through which merchandise may be exported, and further provides ``that such other ports situated on the frontiers of the United States adjoining the British North American Provinces, as may hereafter be found expedient may have extended to them the like privileges on the recommendation of the Secretary of the Treasury, and proclamation duly made by the President of the United States, specially designating the ports to which the aforesaid privileges are to be extended.'' Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, in accordance with the recommendation of the Secretary of the Treasury, do hereby declare and proclaim that the port of St. Albans, in the State of Vermont, is and shall be entitled to all the privileges in regard to the exportation of merchandise in bond to the British North American Provinces adjoining the United States, which are extended to the ports enumerated in the 7th. Section of the Act of Congress of the 3d of March 1845, aforesaid, from and after the date of this proclamation. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States to be affixed. [L. S.] Done at the City of Washington, this Tenth day of January, in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the Eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

Cotton Permit for Henry J. Eager
Executive Mansion January 11, 1865.
An authorized agent of the Treasury Department having with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, contracted for the cotton above mentioned and the party having agreed to sell and deliverer [ sic ] the same to such agent. It is ordered that the Cotton moving in compliance with and for fulfilment of said contract and being transported to said agent, or under his direction, shall be free from seizure or detention by any officer of the Government and commanders of military departments, districts posts and detachments, naval stations gunboats flotillas and fleets will observe this order and give the said Henry J. Eager his agents and transports free and unmolested passage for the purpose of getting the said cotton or any part thereof through the lines other than blockaded lines, and safe conduct within our lines while the same is moving in strict compliance with the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury and for fulfilment of said contract with the agent of the Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Winston Somers

I personally know Dr. Somers & suppose his appointment will be proper if the vacancy exists. A. LINCOLN Jan. 11. 1865.

To Joseph Holt

Sentences in these three cases commuted to imprisonment in the penitentiary at hard labor during the war. A. LINCOLN Jan. 11, 1865

To Joseph Hooker
Major General Hooker Executive Mansion Cincinnati, O Washington, Jan. 11. 1865
It is said that you have ordered Andrew Humphreys to imprisonment at hard labor, in accordance with his original sentence, on the ground that it was not legally competent for Gen. Hovey, having approved the sentence to afterwards modify it. While I incline to the belief that you are technically right, please let Gen. Hovey's modification be acted upon until further order from me. A LINCOLN

To John F. Miller
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Officer in command at War Department, Nashville, Tenn. Washington, D.C., January 11 1865
Postpone the execution of S. W. Elliott and C. E. Peacher until the third day of February 1865. A. LINCOLN

To James Speed
January 11, 1865
Submitted to the Attorney-General, with the request that he reminds me of this application whenever, we shall make a judicial appointment in South Carolina or Georgia. A. LINCOLN Jan. 11. 1865.

To J. Bates Dickson
Officer in command at Executive Mansion, Lexington, Washington, Kentucky Jan'y 12th, 1865.
Suspend execution of sentence of death in case of Solomon Spiegel 9th Michigan cavalry until further orders, and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN. Maj. Eckert Please send the above telegram. JNO. G. NICOLAY

Endorsement

These papers first seen or known of by me, Jan. 12, 1865 A. L.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Gen. Grant Executive Mansion, City-Point, Va. Washington, Jan. 12. 1865.
If Henry Stork of, 5th. Pa. Cavalry has been convicted of desertion, and is not yet executed, please stay till further order & send record. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
January 12, 1865
Judge Advocate General please examine & report on this case. Jan. 12. 1865 A. LINCOLN So much of sentence as imposes confinement in the Penitentiary remitted. A. LINCOLN Jan. 23. 1865

To Montgomery C. Meigs
January 12, 1865
Quarter-Master-General, please see Mr. Duncan, of Montreal, who wishes to exhibit a discovery for the protection of wooden structures against fire A. LINCOLN Jan. 12. 1865

Order Concerning David Levy
January 12, 1865
If David Levy shall enlist and serve faithfully for one year or until otherwise honorably discharged I will pardon him for the past. A. LINCOLN. Jan. 12, 1865.

To James Speed

Attorney General please file & inform me at whose recommendation Duffield was appointed. A. LINCOLN Jan. 12. 1865

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let the appointment within requested be made if it consistently can. A. LINCOLN. Jan. 12, 1865

To John P. Usher
January 12, 1865
Will the Secretary of the Interior please have the Comr. of Pensions to make a particular report in this case, in order that it can be judged whether the man is or is not entitled to a pension? Jan. 12. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Secretary of the Navy Executive Mansion Sir: Washington, Jan. 12. 1865
If it is legally possible, let Frank C. Birney, son of the late Major General Birney, be appointed to the Naval School. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Benjamin F. Butler
Major General Butler Executive Mansion, Fort-Monroe, Va. Washington, Jan. 13. 1865.
Yours asking leave to come to Washington is received. You have been summoned by the Committee on the Conduct of the War to attend here, which of course you will do. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum

File as an application for District Attorney in Georgia, when an appointment shall be made. A. LINCOLN. Jan. 13, 1865

To Leonard Myers
January 13, 1865
If Hon. Mr. Myers will request me in writing, on this sheet, to discharge this man on refunding any bounty received, I will do it, because Mr. Myers requests it. A. LINCOLN Jan. 13, 1865 Let this man be discharged on refunding any bounty received. Jan. 13, 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., January 14 1865.
You have perhaps seen in the papers that Ex. Senator Foote, with his family, attempted to escape from Richmond to Washington, and that he was pursued and taken back. His wife and child are now here. Please give me the earliest information you may receive concerning him---what is likely to be done with him &c. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Gov. Johnson War Department, Washington, D.C., Nashville, Tenn. January 14th. 1865
Yours announcing ordinance of emancipation received. Thanks to the Convention and to you. When do you expect to be here? Would be glad to have your suggestions as to supplying your place of Military Governor. A. LINCOLN

To Grenville M. Dodge
Major General Dodge. Executive Mansion St. Louis, Mo. Washington, January 15, 1865
It is represented to me that there is so much irregular violence in Northern Missouri as to be driving away the people and almost depopulating it. Please gather information, and consider whether an appeal to the people there to go to their homes, and let one another alone, recognizing as a full right of protection for each, that he lets others alone, and banning only him who refuses to let others alone, may not enable you to withdraw the troops, their presence itself a cause of irritation and constant apprehension, and thus restore peace and quiet & returning prosperity. Please consider this and telegraph or write me. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

Let this boy be discharged on refunding any bounty received. Jan. 16 1865. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Ezekiel F. Clay

Let this man be paroled according to the within. A. LINCOLN Jan. 16, 1865

Pass for Mrs. Harriet C. Bledsoe

Allow the bearer, Mrs. Harriet C. Bledsoe, to pass our lines with ordinary baggage and go South. A. LINCOLN Jan. 16. 1865

Pass for John Eaton

Allow Col. Eaton to pass to Gen. Grant's Head Quarters & return Jan. 16. 1865. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
January 17, 1865
Unexecuted part of sentence remitted, on condition that prisoner serves with his regiment to the end of it's term, if it has not already ended. A. LINCOLN Jan. 17. 1865.

To Joseph Holt
January 17, 1865
Pardon on condition of serving out his time faithfully in his regiment. A. LINCOLN Jan. 17. 1865 Pardon for unexecuted part of sentence. A. LINCOLN Jan. 23, 1865

Order Concerning Sisters of Charity of Nazareth
January 17, 1865
Let no depredation be committed upon the property or possessions of the ``Sisters of Charity'' at Nazareth Academy, near Bardstown, Ky A. LINCOLN Jan. 17. 1865

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United Sates: January 17, 1865
I herewith lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty concluded at the Isabella Indian Reservation, in the State of Michigan, on the 18th day of October, 1864, between H. J. Alvord, special commissioner, and D. C. Leach, United States Indian agent, acting as commissioner on the part of the United States, and the chiefs and headmen of the Chippewas of Saginaw, Swan Creek, and Black River, in the State of Michigan, parties to the treaty of August 2, 1855, with amendments. A letter of the Secretary of the Interior of the 12th instant and a copy of a communication of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, of the 22d ultimo, with inclosure accompanying the treaty. Executive Mansion, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Washington, January 17, 1865.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., Hon. Secretary of War January 17, 1865.
My dear Sir: Some time last autumn (I think it was) Shelby made a raid into Missouri; and Gen. Brown had something to do in driving him out. If Gen. Brown's report of the matter is on file, please send me a copy of it. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Please send me the papers in the case of Lieut. John T. Arnette. Jan. 17. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Francis P. Blair, Sr.
F. P. Blair, Esq Washington, Sir: Jan. 18. 1865
Your having shown me Mr. Davis' letter to you of the 12th. Inst., you may say to him that I have constantly been, am now, and shall continue, ready to receive any agent whom he, or any other influential person now resisting the national authority, may informally send to me, with the view of securing peace to the people of our one common country. Yours &c A. LINCOLN.

Cotton Permit for Mrs. R. I. Ward
Executive Mansion January 18 1865.
An authorized agent of the Treasury Department having with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, contracted for the cotton above mentioned and the party having agreed to sell and deliver the same to such agent. It is ordered, that the cotton moving in compliance with and for fulfilment of said contract, and being transported to said agent, or under his direction, shall be free from seizure or detention by any officer of the Government, and commanders of military departments, districts posts and detachments naval stations, gunboats flotillas and fleets, will observe this order and give the said Mrs. R. I. Ward her agents and transports, free and unmolested passage, for the purpose of getting the said cotton, or any part thereof through the lines other than blockaded lines, and safe conduct within our lines while the same is moving in strict compliance with the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury and for fulfilment of said contract with the agent of the Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To---Goodwin
Mr.---Goodwin Executive Mansion, Supreme Court Room Washington, Jan. 18, 1865.
My dear Sir Since talking with you I have concluded to appoint a successor to Mr. Larned at once. This is not because of any change of feeling for, or estimate of, Mr. Larned. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Richard T. Jacob
Hon. Richard T. Jacob Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, Jan. 18, 1865.
You are at liberty to proceed to Kentucky, and to remain at large so far as relates to any cause now past. In what I now do, I decide nothing as to the right or wrong of your arrest, but act in the hope that there is less liability to misunderstanding among Union men now than there was at the time of the arrest. Respectfully A. LINCOLN

To George C. Miller
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 18, 1865
My Dear Sir---Please accept my cordial thanks for the cane you were so kind as to send me, and the letter by which it was accompanied. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN George C. Miller, Esq.

To James Speed

If Larned's resignation is on file, please send me nomination for Perkins Bass at once. A. LINCOLN Jan. 18. 1865

To Grenville M. Dodge
Major General Dodge Executive Mansion St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Jan. 19. 1865
If Mrs. Beattie alias Mrs. Wolff, shall be sentenced to death, notify me, and postpone execution till further order. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lieut. General Grant: Jan. 19, 1865.
Please read and answer this letter as though I was not President, but only a friend. My son, now in his twenty second year, having graduated at Harvard, wishes to see something of the war before it ends. I do not wish to put him in the ranks, nor yet to give him a commission, to which those who have already served long, are better entitled, and better qualified to hold. Could he, without embarrassment to you, or detriment to the service, go into your Military family with some nominal rank, I, and not the public, furnishing his necessary means? If no, say so without the least hesitation, because I am as anxious, and as deeply interested, that you shall not be encumbered as you can be yourself. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ethan A. Hitchcock

Will Gen. Hitchcock please see and hear the bearer, Col. Coburn, on the subject within? A. LINCOLN Jan. 19. 1865.

To Joseph Holt
January 19, 1865
Will the Judge Advocate General please give me his opinion whether it would be legally competent for the President to direct a new-trial in this case, and if yea, whether this is a proper case in which to so direct? A. LINCOLN Jan. 19. 1865.

To Edward O. C. Ord
Executive Mansion, Washington, Major General Ord. Jan. 19. 1865.
You have a man in arrest for desertion passing by the name of Stanley---William Stanley I think---but whose real name is different. He is the son of so close a friend of mine that I must not let him be executed. Please let me know what is his present and prospective condition. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let this appointment be made. A. LINCOLN Jan. 19. 1865

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, Jan. 19, 1865.
You remember that from time to time appeals have been made to us by persons claiming to have attempted to come through our lines with their effects to take the benefit of the Amnesty proclamation, and to have been despoiled of their effects under Gen. Butler's administration. Some of these claims have color of merit, and may be really meritorious. Please consider whether we can not set on foot an investigation, which may advance justice in the premises. Yours truly A. LINCOLN Jan. 19. 1865.

To John P. Usher
January 19, 1865
I personally know this man---Vital Jarrot---to be one of the best of men; & as I believe, having peculiar qualifications for the place---and I shall be glad to appoint him if no obstacle be known at the Department. A. LINCOLN Jan. 19. 1865

To John A. Dix
Major General Dix Executive Mansion New-York. Washington, Jan. 20. 1865
Let W. N. Bilbo be discharged on his parole. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Gen. Grant Executive Mansion City-Point, Va Washington, Jan. 20. 1865
If Thomas Lamplugh, of the first Delaware Regiment, has been sentenced to death, and is not yet executed, suspend & report the case to me. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Export of Hay
Executive Mansion, Washington City, Jan. 20, 1865.
Ordered: That no clearances for the exportation of hay from the United States be granted until further orders, unless the same shall have been placed on shipboard before the publication hereof. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Pass for H. P. Livingston

Allow the bearer, H. P. Livingston, to pass from any Northern Port to Savannah Ga. & then report to the U.S. Military Commandant. Jan. 20. 1865 A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for L. J. Czapkay
Executive Mansion, Washington, January 20, 1865.
I am not personally acquainted with Dr. L. J. Czapkay, of whom the letter on the other half of this sheet is written; but the writer is one of our United States Senators, of high standing, whom I cheerfully indorse; and I add that I hope Dr. Czapkay may have a pleasant sojourn in Europe and may find all reasonable facilities for effecting the objects of his visit. A. LINCOLN

Reply to Baron de Wetterstedt
January 20, 1865
BARON WETTERSTEDT: My memory does not recall an instance of disagreement between Sweden and the United States. Your predecessor was most agreeable in his intercourse with this Government, and I greet you with the same good feeling which was entertained for him while he resided with us. The consideration which your Government has manifested by raising the rank of its mission here, is acknowledged with sincere satisfaction. You may be assured that on my part every occasion will be improved to exhibit the sincere desire which this Government entertains for the prosperity and welfare of the Government and Kingdom of Sweden and Norway.

To Joseph J. Reynolds
Executive Mansion Washington, Major General Reynolds. Jan. 20. 1865
It would appear by the accompanying papers that Mrs. Mary E. Morton is the owner, independently of her husband, of a certain building, premises and furniture, which she, with her children, has been occupying and using peaceably during the war, until recently, when the Provost-Marshal, has, in the name of the U.S. government, seized the whole of said property, and ejected her from it. It also appears by her statement to me, that her husband went off in the rebellion at the beginning, wherein he still remains. It would seem that this seizure has not been made for any Military object, as for a place of storage, a hospital, or the like, because this would not have required the seizure of the furniture, and especially not the return of furniture previously taken away. The seizure must have been on some claim [of] confiscation , a matter of which the courts, and not the Provost-Marshals, or other military officers are to judge. In this very case, would probably be the questions ``Is either the husband or wife a traitor?'' ``Does the property belong to the husband or to the wife?'' ``Is the property of the wife confiscable for the treason of the husband?'' and other similar questions, all which it is ridiculous for a Provost-Marshal to assume to decide. The true rule for the Military is to seize such property as is needed for Military uses and reasons, and let the rest alone. Cotton and other staple articles of commerce are seizable for military reasons. Dwelling-houses & furniture are seldom so. If Mrs. Morton is playing traitor, to the extent of practical injury, seize her, but leave her house to the courts. Please revise and adjust this case upon these principles. Yours &c A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Let the order dishonorably dismissing Captn. Burrage be revoked. Jan. 21, 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
January 21, 1865
Let the unexecuted portion of the sentence be remitted and the soldier be returned to duty with his regiment to serve his full enlistment including period of absence. A. LINCOLN Jan. 21. 1865

To Lewis Wallace

Major General Wallace. Executive Mansion Baltimore, Md. Washington, Jan. 21. 1865 Two weeks or ten days ago as I remember I gave direction for Levin L. Walters to be either tried at once or discharged. If he has not been tried, nor a trial of him progressing in good faith, discharge him at once. A. LINCOLN

Cotton Permit for John D. Champlin
Executive Mansion, City of Washington. January, [22?] 1865.
It having been made satisfactorily to appear to me that John D. Champlin of the City of New York, is the owner of a large amount of Cotton, now being in the vicinage of the Port of Galveston and City of Houston, State of Texas, amounting to Eleven Thousand Bales, which it is right and proper he should be permitted, and which it is the true policy of the United States that he be authorized together with any other Cotton of which he may obtain possession to take and carry away from said State of Texas. Now therefore, it is hereby ordered that permission be and is hereby given to the said John D. Champlin by himself, his agents, servants and employees, by means of Steamers, Ships or other Vessels, to proceed to, and take such Cotton and transport the same from said Port of Galveston, to the Port of Havana, or any Port within the United States. And said Steamers, Ships or other Vessels, with such Cotton, shall be and are hereby declared free and exempt from seizure or detention or any molestation by any Officer of the Government. And Commandants of Military Departments, Districts, Posts, Detachments, Naval Stations, Ships of War, Squadrons, Gun Boats, Flotillas, and Fleets will observe this order, and obey the same---and will give the said John D. Champlin, his agents, servants and employees, Steamers, Ships, Vessels and Transports free and unmolested way and right of way for the purpose of getting and taking away said Cotton or any part thereof from the place aforesaid. The said John D. Champlin is not to carry into the Port of Galveston any article goods or merchandize contraband of war, but may take into said Port Bagging and Rope and such articles as are not contraband of war, for the purposes aforesaid.

Memorandum Concerning the Draft
[c. January 22, 1865]
The draft matter complained of by Gov. Fenton is this, that in giving credits for part calls one three-years man is counted equal to three one-year men, while on the pending call each man is to count one and only one, whether he enlist for one, two, or three years. The practical difficulty may be illustrated by the following supposed case. The towns of A & B---before any enlisted, had each 100 men. On the late call A gave sixty six one year men, leaving only 34 at home, while B. gave 33 three-years men, leaving 67 at home. On the pending call each owes 100 men, subject to its credit. But while A gets credit for 66---it owes 34---taking the last man in it; while B gets credit for 99---owes one, and has sixty-six left quietly at home. This ugly conjuncture occurs in some sort accidentally, some towns putting in one years men and others three years men, while attaching no consequence to the difference, but which now burthens the one class absolutely beyond their immediate power to bear. While the above is only a supposed case, I am told there are realities that are even stranger---when there are not men enough in the town to answer it's quota. It gives no present relief that the one year men are to come home sooner than the three year men, as the former . . . 

To Edwin M. Stanton
Executive Mansion. Hon. Sec of War. January 22, 1865.
The Governor has a pretty good case. I feel sure he is more than half right. We don't want him to feel cross and we in the wrong. Try and fix it with him. A. LINCOLN

To Lewis Wallace
Major General Wallace Executive Mansion Baltimore, Md. Washington Jan. 22. 1865
The case of Waters being as you state it, in your despatch of today, of course the trial will proceed. A. LINCOLN

To Christopher C. Augur
January 23, 1865
Returned to Gen. Augur for the exercise of his own discretion. And it is suggested that like cases be not refered to the President, unless it be such as he specially directs. A. LINCOLN Jan. 23. 1865.

To William O. Bartlett
Office U. S. Military Telegraph, W. O. Bartlett, Esq War Department, New-York. Washington, D.C., Jan. 23. 1865
Please come and see me at once. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning William F. Hinkle
[c. January 23, 1865]
West-Point---An interesting testimonial. William F. Hinkle.

To Joseph Holt

Pardon, on condition of re-inlisting and faithfully serving a term. Jan. 23, 1865. A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Pardon, for unexecuted part of sentence on condition of serving out remainder of his term in his regiment. A. LINCOLN Jan. 23. 1865

Order Concerning John Dugan and Christopher V. Hogan
January 23, 1865
The within named Hogan, or Dugan was arrested and imprisoned by my authority. This writ of habeas corpus is suspended, and the officer having Hogan or Dugan in custody is directed not to produce his body, but to hold him in custody until further orders giving this order in his return to the court. Jan. 23, 1865. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 23, 1865
Order of dismissal having been revoked and officer dismissed because Senate had not confirmed, now let him have his reappointment if vacancy has not been filled. A. LINCOLN Jan. 23, 1865

To Grenville M. Dodge
Major General Dodge Executive Mansion St. Louis, Mo Washington, Jan. 24. 1865
It is said an old lady in Clay county, Mo, by name, Mrs. Winfred E. Price, is about being sent South. If she is not misbehaving let her remain A. LINCOLN

Endorsement
[January 24, 1865]
Charge to me A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning David Zimmerman

A substitute will be accepted when mustered in for this man. Jan. 24. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Gen. Grant Executive Mansion City-Point. Washington Jan. 24. 1865
If Newell W. Root, of Conn. Heavy Artillery is under sentence of death please telegraph me briefly the circumstances. A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Hon. Andrew Johnson Executive Mansion Nashville, Tenn. Washington, Jan. 24. 1865
Several members of the Cabinet, with myself, considered the question to-day as to the time of your coming on here. While we fully appreciate your wish to remain in Tennessee until her State-Government shall be completely re-inaugerated, it is our unanamous conclusion that it is unsafe for you to not be here on the fourth of March. Be sure to reach here by that time. A. LINCOLN

To William A. Menzies
William Menzies, Esq. Executive Mansion Dear Sir Washington, Jan. 24. 1865
Wilmington, N.C. is ours, of right and in fact Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Reply to Philadelphia Delegation
January 24, 1865
REVEREND SIR, AND LADIES AND GENTLEMEN: I accept, with emotions of profoundest gratitude, the beautiful gift you have been pleased to present to me. You will, of course, expect that I acknowledge it. So much has been said about Gettysburg, and so well said, that for me to attempt to say more may, perhaps, only serve to weaken the force of that which has already been said. A most graceful and eloquent tribute was paid to the patriotism and selfdenying labors of the American ladies, on the occasion of the consecration of the National Cemetery at Gettysburg, by our illustrious friend, Edward Everett, now, alas! departed from earth.  His life was a truly great one, and, I think, the greatest part of it was that which crowned its closing years. I wish you to read, if you have not already done so, the glowing, and eloquent, and truthful words which he then spoke of the women of America. Truly, the services they have rendered to the defenders of our country in this perilous time, and are yet rendering, can never be estimated as they ought to be. For your kind wishes to me, personally, I beg leave to render you, likewise, my sincerest thanks. I assure you they are reciprocated. And now, gentlemen and ladies, may God bless you all.

To Edwin M. Stanton
January 24, 1865
I personally know Captn Winters & think he should have another chance. Let the order dismissing him be set aside upon his making right the matter of his accounts. Jany 24. 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., Jan. 25 1865
Having received the report in the case of Newell W. Root, I do not interfere further in the case. A. LINCOLN

Memoranda on Robert Burns
[January 25, 1865]
I can not frame a toast to Burns. I can say nothing worthy of his generous heart, and transcendent genius A. LINCOLN I can not frame a toast to Burns. I can say nothing worthy of his generous heart and transcending genius. Thinking of what he has said, I can not say anything which seems worth saying A. LINCOLN

To John F. Miller
Officer in Command at Executive Mansion Nashville, Tenn. Washington. Jan. 25. 1865
Do not allow---Elliott, under sentence of death to be executed without further order from me; and if an exchange of him for Capt. S. T. Harris, now a prisoner, supposed to be at Columbia South-Carolina, can be effected, let it be done. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War. Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Washington Jan. 25. 1865
About Jews. I wish you would give Dr. Zacharie a pass to go to Savannah, remain a week and return, bringing with him, if he wishes, his father and sisters or any of them. This will spare me trouble and oblige me. I promised him long ago that he should be allowed this whenever Savannah should fall into our hands. Blumenberg, at Baltimore. I think he should have a hearing. He has suffered for us & served us well---had the rope around his neck for being our friend---raised troops---fought, and been wounded. He should not be dismissed in a way that disgraces and ruins him without a hearing. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

Pardon, on condition of returning to his regiment and faithfully serving to the end of the term of the regiment. A. LINCOLN Jan. 26. 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lieutenant General Grant January 26, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of William H. Jeffs Company B Fifty sixth Massachusetts volunteers until further orders, and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN. Maj. Eckert Please send the above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv. Sec.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lieutenant General Grant Jan'y 26, 1865.
Suspend execution of Hamel Shaffer ordered to be shot at City-Point tomorrow, until further orders, and forward record of trial for examination A. LINCOLN

To Abram Wakeman
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Abram Wakeman. War Department, New-York. Washington, D.C., January 26 1865
I have telegraphed W. O. Bartlett to come and see me. He neither comes, nor answers. Can you not send him? A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Hon. Secretary of the Navy Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, Jan. 26. 1865.
I now understand that the record of the trial of Smith brothers at Boston is before you. Please do not let any execution of sentence take place, until the record shall have been before me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lt. General Grant 27 January, 1865.
Stay execution in case of Barney Roorke 15th New York Engineers until record can be examined here. A. LINCOLN. Send above dispatch and oblige JOHN HAY A.A.G.

To John F. Miller
Executive Mansion, To the Commanding Officer Washington, at Nashville Tenn 27 January, 1865.
Let execution in case of Cornelius E. Peacher be stayed until further orders. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Cornelius C. Van Arsdale
Executive Mansion, Washington, 27 January, 1865.
Let Cornelius C. Van Arsdale Prisoner of War be discharged on taking the oath of Dec. 8. 1863. A. LINCOLN

Reply to Delegation of Christian Commission
January 27, 1865
You owe me no thanks for what I have been able to do for you. If I may be permitted to say it, I owe you no thanks for what you have so excellently done for the country and for me; we are both alike working in the same cause, and it is because of the fact of its being a just one which gives us our mutual joy and reward in its service.''

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: January 27, 1865
In answer to a resolution of the Senate, dated January 23, 1865, returning to me certain nominations and requesting information whether the offices to which the persons named are respectively nominated are vacant, and, if so, how they became vacant, I herewith transmit a communication from the honorable the Attorney-General giving the information required. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, January 27, 1865.

Endorsement Concerning Francis P. Blair, Sr.
January 28. 1865
To-day Mr. Blair tells me that on the 21st. Inst. he delivered to Mr. Davis the original of which the within is a copy, and left it with him; that at the time of delivering it, Mr. Davis read it over twice in Mr. Blair's presence, at the close of which he, Mr. B. remarked that the part about ``our one common country'' related to the part of Mr. D's letter about ``the two countries'' to which Mr. D. replied that he so understood it. A. LINCOLN

To Edward O. C. Ord
Executive Mansion, Major General Ord Washington, Army of the James 28 January, 1865.
Give me a brief report in case of Charles Love, 7th New Hampshire, tried for desertion, & transmit record for my examination. A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Fergus Peniston
Executive Mansion Washington January 28. 1865.
Mr Fergus Penniston of New Orleans claiming that he has bought products of the insurrectionary States under proper authorities of the Treasury Department issued prior to July 2, 1864, and proposing to get the Permits issued under said Authorities renewed or revived as provided in ``Amended Regulation LV, series of July 29, 1864'' dated January 4, 1865 signed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and approved by me, all officers of the Army and Navy and civil officers of the Government will respect all Permits to said Penniston renewed or revived in pursuance of said Amended Regulation, and cotton being transported under such renewed or revived Permits will be free from seizure detention or forfeiture, and be allowed free and unmolested passage as permitted by Agents of the Treasury Department in accordance with said amended Regulation. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. J. B. Holliday

Allow the bearer to visit her husband, Major J. B. Holliday, a prisoner of war, at Johnson's Island. A. LINCOLN Jan. 28, 1865

To William H. Seward

Can the Sec. of State do any thing with this? [January?] 28, 1865 A. LINCOLN

To George F. Shepley
U.S. Military Telegraph To Commanding Officer By Telegraph from Washington D.C Norfolk dated January 28th. 1865
Suspend execution of death sentence of Wm. H. Jeffs Co. ``B'' 56th. Mass Vols, until further orders, and forward record of the trial for examination. A. LINCOLN

To James Speed

Will the Attorney General please give his opinion in writing on the legal points presented in this paper. A. LINCOLN Jan. 28. 1865

To George H. Stuart
[January 29, 1865]
Near the close let us have ``Your Mission'' repeated by Mr. Philips. Dont say I called for it. LINCOLN

To Thomas T. Eckert
Major T. T. Eckert Executive Mansion Sir Washington, Jan. 30. 1865
You will proceed with the documents placed in your hands; and, on reaching Gen. Ord, will deliver him the letter addressed to him by the Secretary of War; then, by Gen. Ord's assistance, procure an interview with Messrs. Stephens, Hunter and Campbell, or any of them, deliver to him, or them, the paper on which your own letter is written,  note on the copy which you retain the time of delivery, and to whom delivered, receive their answer in writing, waiting a reasonable time for it, and which, if it contain their decision to come, through, without further condition, will be your warrant to ask Gen. Ord to pass them through as directed in the letter of the Secretary of War to him. If by their answer they decline to come, or propose other terms, do not have them passed through. And this being your whole duty return and report to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General, please procure record & report on this case Jan. 30. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Edward O. C. Ord
Major General Ord Washington, D.C., Hd. Qrs. Army of James Jan. 30, 1865.
By direction of the President you are instructed to inform the three gentlemen, Messrs. Stephens, Hunter, and Campbell, that a messenger will be despatched to them, at or near where they now are, without unnecessary delay. Edwin M Stanton Sec of War

To Edward O. C. Ord
Major General Ord. [January 30, 1865]
Please procure for the bearer, Major Thomas T. Eckert an interview with Messrs. Stevens, Hunter and Campbell; and if on his return to you, he requests it, pass them through our lines to Fortress-Monroe, by such route, and under such other Military precautions as you may deem prudent, giving them protection and comfortable quarters while there. Let none of this have any effect upon your military movements or plans.

To William H. Seward
January 30, 1865
Will the Secretary of State please see and hear the bearer Mr. Ulrich & oblige him if he conveniently can? He is a young man raised in the place of my residence, and of a most respectable family, as he also is himself. A. LINCOLN Jan. 30. 1865.

To Alexander H. Stephens, John A. Campbell and Robert M. T. Hunter
Messrs Alex H Stephens, [January 30, 1865]
J. A. Campbell and R. M. T. Hunter. Gentlemen I am instructed by the President of the United States to place this paper in your hands with the information that if you pass through the U.S. Military lines it will be understood that you do so for the purpose of an informal conference, on the basis of the letter, a copy of which is on the reverse side of this sheet; and that if you choose to pass on such understanding, and so notify me in writing, I will procure the Commanding General to pass you through the lines, and to Fortress-Monroe, under such military precautions as he may deem prudent; and, at which place you will be met in due time by some person or persons for the purpose of such informal conferrence. And further that you shall have protection, safe-conduct, and safe return, in all events. THOS. T. ECKERT. Maj & A.D.C.

To James M. Ashley

So far as I know, there are no peace commissioners in the city, or likely to be in it. A. LINCOLN Jan. 31. 1865.

To George C. Cadwalader
Executive Mansion, Officer in command Washington, at Philadelphia, Pa. January 31, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of John Murphy, ordered for February 10th 1865 at Fort-Mifflin, until further orders, and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN Maj. Eckert Please send above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv. Sec.

To Samuel S. Cox
Executive Mansion, Washington, Hon. Samuel S. Cox Jan. 31, 1865.
Thank you for the speech. I sought it for the humor said to be in it; but while it meets expectations in that respect, it has a far higher merit, so far as I can judge by the hasty glance I have only found time to give it. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. General Grant Executive Mansion City-Point, Va. Washington Jan. 31. 1865
A messenger is coming to you on the business contained in your despatch. Detain the gentleman in comfortable quarters until he arrives & then act upon the message he brings, as far as applicable, it having been made up to pass through Gen. Ord's hands, & when the gentlemen were supposed to be beyond our lines. A. LINCOLN

To Hannibal Hamlin
Hon. H. Hamlin, Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., President of the Senate, January 31, 1865.
Sir, I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of war, covering papers bearing on the arrest and imprisonment of Colonel Richard T. Jacobs, Lieutenant Governor of the State of Kentucky, and Colonel Frank Wolford, one of the Presidential Electors of that State, requested by Resolution of the Senate, dated December 20, 1864. Very Respectfully, Yr. obdt. servant, ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. William H. Seward Executive Mansion Secretary of State Washington, Jan. 31. 1865
You will proceed to Fortress-Monroe, Virginia, there to meet, and informally confer with Messrs. Stephens, Hunter, and Campbell, on the basis of my letter to F. P. Blair, Esq., on Jan. 18. 1865, a copy of which you have. You will make known to them that three things are indispensable, towit: 1. The restoration of the national authority throughout all the States. 2. No receding, by the Executive of the United States on the Slavery question, from the position assumed thereon, in the late Annual Message to Congress, and in preceding documents. 3. No cessation of hostilities short of an end of the war, and the disbanding of all forces hostile to the government. You will inform them that all propositions of theirs not inconsistent with the above, will be considered and passed upon in a spirit of sincere liberality. You will hear all they may choose to say, and report it to me. You will not assume to definitely consummate anything. Yours &c. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To William H. Seward

Hon. Sec. of State, please see this gentleman who is the gentleman from Canada spoken of yesterday. A. LINCOLN Jan. 31, 1865

To Lewis Wallace
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Wallace War Department, Baltimore, Md. Washington, D.C., Jan. 31 1865
Suspend sending off of Charles E. Waters until further order & send record if it has not been already sent. A. LINCOLN

To Thomas T. Eckert
Major T. T. Eckert Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Care Gen. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., Feb. 1 1865
Call at Fortress-Monroe & put yourself under direction of Mr. S. whom you will find there. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point. Washington, D.C., February 1. 1865
Let nothing which is transpiring, change, hinder, or delay your Military movements, or plans. A LINCOLN

Order Concerning John S. Loveaire
February 1, 1865
Let this man re-inlist for not less than two years, in any regiment, & upon faithfully serving out of which term, or until other wise honorably discharged, he is pardoned for all military offences now past. A. LINCOLN Feb. 1. 1865

Order Concerning William Peacock
February 1, 1865
Allow the bearer, William Peacock to enter any regiment having as much as two years to serve, and upon faithfully serving out his term in which he is pardoned for any desertions heretofore committed. A. LINCOLN Feb. 1, 1865

Resolution Submitting the Thirteenth Amendment to the States
February 1, 1865
Thirty -Eighth Congress of the United States of America; At the second Session , Begun and held at the City of Washington, on Monday, the fifth day of December, one thousand eight hundred and sixty -four. A RESOLUTION Submitting to the legislatures of the several States a proposition to amend the Constitution of the United States. Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , (two-thirds of both houses concurring), That the following article be proposed to the legislatures of the several States as an amendment to the constitution of the United States, which, when ratified by three-fourths of said Legislatures, shall be valid, to all intents and purposes, as a part of the said Constitution, namely: Article XIII. Section 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction. Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation. SCHUYLER COLFAX Speaker of the House of Representatives. H. HAMLIN Vice President of the United States, and President of the Senate. Approved, February 1. 1865. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Response to a Serenade
February 1, 1865
The President said he supposed the passage through Congress of the Constitutional amendment for the abolishment of Slavery throughout the United States, was the occasion to which he was indebted for the honor of this call. [Applause.] The occasion was one of congratulation to the country and to the whole world. But there is a task yet before us---to go forward and consummate by the votes of the States that which Congress so nobly began yesterday. [Applause and cries---``They will do it,'' &c.] He had the honor to inform those present that Illinois had already to-day done the work.  [Applause.] Maryland was about half through; but he felt proud that Illinois was a little ahead. He thought this measure was a very fitting if not an indispensable adjunct to the winding up of the great difficulty. He wished the reunion of all the States perfected and so effected as to remove all causes of disturbance in the future; and to attain this end it was necessary that the original disturbing cause should, if possible, be rooted out. He thought all would bear him witness that he had never shrunk from doing all that he could to eradicate Slavery by issuing an emancipation proclamation. [Applause.] But that proclamation falls far short of what the amendment will be when fully consummated. A question might be raised whether the proclamation was legally valid. It might be added that it only aided those who came into our lines and that it was inoperative as to those who did not give themselves up, or that it would have no effect upon the children of the slaves born hereafter. In fact it would be urged that it did not meet the evil. But this amendment is a King's cure for all the evils. [Applause.] It winds the whole thing up. He would repeat that it was the fitting if not indispensable adjunct to the consummation of the great game we are playing. He could not but congratulate all present, himself, the country and the whole world upon this great moral victory.

To George F. Shepley
Gen. Shepley Executive Mansion Norfolk, Va. Washington, Feb. 1. 1865
It is said that Henry W. Young, private in 63rd. N.Y. Vols. Co. E. is in arrest for desertion. If he shall be tried and sentenced to any punishment, do not let sentence be executed until further order from me, meantime send me record of the trial. A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let Colonel Thomas be appointed. A. LINCOLN Feb. 1. 1865.

To Montgomery Blair
Executive Mansion, Washington, 186 .
Mr. Blair will hereafter know that I ought not to stop now Feb'y 2d 1865. A L.

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Officer in command Executive Mansion, at Frankfort, Kentucky Washington, Feb'y 2, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of W. E. Walker until further orders, and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN. Maj. Eckert Please send the above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv. Sec.

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cipher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va Washington, D.C., Feb. 2, 1865.
Say to the gentlemen I will meet them personally at Fortress-Monroe, as soon as I can get there. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
``Cipher'' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. W. H. Seward. War Department, Fortress-Monroe, Va Washington, D.C., Feb. 2. 1865
Induced by a despatch of Gen. Grant, I join you at Fort-Monroe so soon as I can come. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Let the within request be complied with, unless there be some insuperable objection not occurring to me. A. LINCOLN Feb. 2. 1865

To John F. Driggs
Executive Mansion, Washington, My Dear Sir: 3d February, 1865.
I have received at your hands a very fine specimen of the Mackinaw Salmon Trout and I beg that you will convey to Mr. Williams my cordial thanks for his kind thoughtfulness; and accept my acknowledgments for your courtesy in the transmission of his present. I am, sir, very truly yours A. LINCOLN. Hon. J. F. Driggs &c &c

To Carl Schurz
Executive Mansion, General: Washington, Feb. 3d., 1865.
I have received your note of today. There will be no objection made to your leaving Washington for a few days, and returning upon the permission heretofore granted. Yours truly Major General Carl Schurz A. LINCOLN

To James B. Fry

This is too large a job for the officers to be encumbered with now in the midst of preparations for the approaching draft. Feb. 4. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Gen. Grant Washington, City-Point. Va. Feb 4 1865
The President desires me to repeat that nothing transpired, or transpiring with the three gentlemen from Richmond, is to cause any change hindrance or delay, of your military plans or operations. EDWIN M STANTON Secretary of War

To Charles W. Hill
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Officer in command at War Department, Johnson's Island, Ohio Washington, D.C., Feb. 4 1865
Parole Lieut. John A. Stephens, prisoner of War, to report to me here in person, and send him to me. It is in pursuance of an arrangement I made yesterday with his uncle, Hon. A. H. Stephens. Acknowledge receipt A. LINCOLN

To John F. Miller
Officer in command Executive Mansion, at Nashville, Tennessee Washington, February 4, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of James R. Mallory until further orders. A. LINCOLN Maj. Eckert Please send the above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

To the Senate
To, the Senate of the United States: February 4, 1865
In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the 13th. ultimo, requesting information upon the present condition of Mexico, and the case of the French war transport steamer ``Rhine,'' I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, and the papers by which it was accompanied. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, February. 4th. 1865.

To Thomas E. Bramlette
His Excellency Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Governor Bramlette War Department, Frankfort, Ky. Washington, D.C., Feb. 5 1865
Your despatch received. Will send official copy of Constitutional amendment by mail to-morrow, this being Sunday. Precedents justify the Legislature to act on ex-officio notice, of congress having passed the proposed amendment; nevertheless I will send you the authenticated copy. A. LINCOLN

To the Senate and House of Representatives
Fellow citizens of the Senate, and [February 5, 1865]
House of Representatives. I respectfully recommend that a Joint Resolution, substantially as follows, be adopted so soon as practicable, by your honorable bodies. ``Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives, of the United States of America in congress assembled: That the President of the United States is hereby empowered, in his discretion, to pay four hundred millions of dollars to the States of Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West-Virginia, in the manner, and on the conditions following, towit: The payment to be made in six per cent government bonds, and to be distributed among said States pro rata on their respective slave populations, as shown by the census of 1860; and no part of said sum to be paid unless all resistance to the national authority shall be abandoned and cease, on or before the first day of April next; and upon such abandonment and ceasing of resistance, one half of said sum to be paid in manner aforesaid, and the remaining half to be paid only upon the amendment of the national constitution recently proposed by congress, becoming valid law, on or before the first day of July next, by the action thereon of the requisite number of States'' The adoption of such resolution is sought with a view to embody it, with other propositions, in a proclamation looking to peace and re-union. Whereas a Joint Resolution has been adopted by congress in the words following, towit Now therefore I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do proclaim, declare, and make known, that on the conditions therein stated, the power conferred on the Executive in and by said Joint Resolution, will be fully exercised; that war will cease, and armies be reduced to a basis of peace; that all political offences will be pardoned; that all property, except slaves, liable to confiscation or forfeiture, will be released therefrom, except in cases of intervening interests of third parties; and that liberality will be recommended to congress upon all points not lying within executive control. [Endorsement] Feb. 5. 1865 To-day these papers, which explain themselves, were drawn up and submitted to the Cabinet & unanamously disapproved by them. A LINCOLN

To William Dennison
February 6, 1865
Mr. Washburne has presented me all the papers in this case; and finding Mrs. Bushnell as well recommended as any other, & she being the widow of a soldier who fell in battle for the Union, let her be appointed. A. LINCOLN Feb. 6. 1865

To James B. Fry
Executive Mansion, Provost-Marshal-General: Washington February 6, 1865.
These gentlemen distinctly say to me this morning that what they want is the means from your office of showing their people that the quota assigned to them is right. They think it will take but little time---two hours, they say. Please give them double the time and every facility you can. Yours, truly, A. LINCOLN. February 6, 1865. The Provost-Marshal brings this letter back to me and says he cannot give the facility required without detriment to the service, and thereupon he is excused from doing it. A. LINCOLN.

To Ulysses S. Grant
To Gen: Grant February 6, 1865
Headquarters Armies of the U.S. Suspend execution in case of Simon J. Schaffer 15th N.Y. Engineers until further orders and send me the record. Send above A LINCOLN JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv. Sec.

To Frederick Hassaurek
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Frederick Hassaurek. War Department, Cincinnati, O. Washington, D.C., Feb. 6. 1865
A despatch from Gen. Grant says ``Lieut. Markbeit has been released from prison, and is now on his way North.'' A. LINCOLN

To Andrew Johnson
Governor Andrew Johnson Executive Mansion Nashville Tennessee Feb. 6. 1865
Let the matter of the McKendree Church remain as it is without further action until you see me. A. LINCOLN

Order to Make Corrections in the Draft
Executive Mansion, Washington City. February 6th. 1865.
Whereas complaints are made in some localities, respecting the assignments of quotas and credits allowed for the pending call of troops to fill up the armies---now, in order to determine all controversies in respect thereto, and to avoid any delay in filling up the armies---It is ordered---That the Attorney General, Brigadier General Richard Delafield, and Colonel C. W. Foster,  be, and they are hereby constituted, a Board to examine into the proper quotas and credits of the respective States and districts, under the call of December 19th. 1864, with directions that, if any errors be found therein, to make such corrections as the law and facts may require, and report their determination to the Provost Marshal General. The determination of said Board to be final and conclusive, and the draft to be made in conformity therewith. 2. The Provost Marshal General is ordered to make the draft in the respective districts, as speedily as the same can be done after the 15th. of this month. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To Thomas T. Eckert
War Department Major T. T. Eckert Washington City, Dear Sir. Feb. 7 1865
Please furnish me copies of all despatches sent by the Secretary of War or myself, on or about the peace negotiation, from 29th. Ult. till I left on the 2nd. Inst. both inclusive. So far as I can remember they will be One by Sec. of War to Gen. Ord, sent after mid-night Sunday night & may be dated either 29th. or 30th. One sent by him to Gen. Ord on 30th. written in my hand. One sent by me to Gen. Grant on 31st. One sent by me to Gen. Grant on 2nd. Inst. One sent by me to Hon. W. H. Seward on 2nd. Inst. You may add one sent by Sec. of War to Gen. Grant on my return on the 4th Yours truly A LINCOLN

To William Lloyd Garrison
Executive Mansion, Washington, My Dear Mr. Garrison 7 February, 1865.
I have your kind letter of the 21st of January, and can only beg that you will pardon the seeming neglect occasioned by my constant engagements. When I received the spirited and admirable painting ``Waiting for the Hour'' I directed my Secretary not to acknowledge its arrival at once, preferring to make my personal acknowledgment of the thoughtful kindness of the donors; and waiting for some leisure hour, I have committed the discourtesy of not replying at all. I hope you will believe that my thanks though late, are most cordial, and I request that you will convey them to those associated with you in this flattering and generous gift. I am very truly Your friend and Servant A. LINCOLN. Wm. Lloyd Garrison Esq

To John Glenn
`` Cypher '' Lt. Col. Glenn. Executive Mansion Commanding Post at Washington, Henderson, Ky. Feb. 7. 1865
Complaint is made to me that you are forcing negroes into the Military service, and even torturing them---riding them on rails and the like---to extort their consent. I hope this may be a mistake. The like must not be done by you, or any one under you. You must not force negroes any more than white men. Answer me on this. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieutenant General Grant: Executive Mansion, City Point, Va. Washington, February 7, 1865.
Gen. Singleton, who bears you this claims that, he already has arrangements made if you consent to bring a large amount of Southern produce through your lines. For its bearing on our finances I would be glad for this to be done if it can be without injuriously disturbing your military operations, or supplying the enemy. I wish you to be judge and master on these points. Please see and hear him fully, and decide whether anything, and if anything, what can be done in the premises. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Lieut. Gen. Grant Washington, Feb. [post 7], 1865.
Some time ago you telegraphed that you had stopped a Mr. Laws from passing our lines with a boat and cargo, and I directed you to be informed that you must be allowed to do as you please in such matters. To-night Mr. Laws calls on me, and I have told him, and now tell you that the matter, as to his passing the lines is under your control absolutely; and that he can have any relaxation you choose to give him & none other. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Introduction for Mrs. Long

Please see Mrs. Dr. Long AL. Feb. 7. 1865

To James Speed
February 7, 1865
I have sufficient evidence that R. A. Gray, bearer of this, is loyal man, and entitled to be treated as such, but I know nothing as to his rights concerning the property, or rents mentioned within. Feb. 7. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Feb. [7?], 1865.
Complaint is made to me that our recruiting officers at, and in vicinity of of [ sic ] Mayville, Ky. are forcing negroes into the service. Please enquire into this & stop it if true. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Alfred Sully
Officer in command Executive Mansion, at Davenport Iowa: Washington, Feb'y 7, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of John Davis alias John Lewis until further orders and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN Maj. Eckert: Please send the above telegram. JNO. G. NICOLAY

To William P. Fessenden
February 8, 1865
As this letter is written by my old friend, who is one hundred and four years old, I sincerely desire that his friend, this young lady may obtain the employment he asks for her. Will the Sec. of the Treasury please see & hear her? A. LINCOLN Feb. 8, 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieut. Gen. Grant Executive Mansion City Point, Va. Washington, Feb. 8. 1865
I am called on by the House of Representatives to give an account of my interview with Messrs. Stephens, Hunter & Campbell; and it is very desireable to me to put in your despatch of Feb. 1st. to the Sec. of War, in which among other things you say ``I fear now their going back without any expression from any one in authority will have a bad influence'' I think the despatch does you credit while I do not see that it can embarrass you. May I use it? A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
February 8, 1865
Judge Advocate General please procure record & report on this case. A. LINCOLN Feb. 8, 1865 Pardon for unexecuted portion of sentence and discharge the Prisoner. A. LINCOLN Feb. 16, 1865

To the Senate and House of Representatives
To the Honorable, the Senate February 8, 1865
and House of Representatives: The Joint Resolution entitled, ``Joint Resolution declaring certain States not entitled to representation in the Electoral College,'' has been signed by the Executive, in deference to the view of Congress implied in its passage and presentation to him. In his own view, however, the two Houses of Congress, convened under the Twelfth Article of the Constitution, have complete power to exclude from counting all electoral votes deemed by them to be illegal; and it is not competent for the Executive to defeat or obstruct that power by a veto, as would be the case if his action were at all essential in the matter. He disclaims all right of the Executive to interfere in any way in the matter of canvassing or counting electoral votes; and he also disclaims that by signing said Resolution he has expressed any opinion on the recitals of the preamble or any judgment of his own upon the subject of the Resolution. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Executive Mansion February 8, 1865.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
To the Senate February 8, 1865
and House of Representatives: I transmit to Congress a copy of a note of the 4th instant addressed by J. Hume Burnley. Esquire, Her Britannic Majestys Charg d' Affaires to the Secretary of State, relative to a sword which it is proposed to present to Captain Henry S. Stellwagen, Commanding the United States frigate Constellation, as a mark of gratitude for his services to the British brigantine Mersey. The expediency of sanctioning the acceptance of the gift, is submitted to your consideration. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 8th. February, 1865.

To John G. Smith
His Excellency Executive Mansion, Gov. Smith Washington, Feb'y. 8th, 1865.
Complaint is made to me by Vermont that the assignment of her quota for the draft on the pending call is intrinsically unjust, and also in bad faith of the government's promise to fairly allow credits for men previously furnished. To illustrate a supposed case is stated as follows. Vermont and New Hampshire must between them furnish 6000 men on the pending call,  and being equals each must furnish as many as the other in the long run. But the Government finds that on former calls, Vermont furnished a surplus of 500, and New Hampshire a surplus of 1500. These two surpluses making 2000 an[d] added to the 6000, making 8000 to be furnished by the two states or 4000 each less by fair credits. Then subtract Vermont's surplus of 500 from her 4000, leaves 3500 as her quota on the pending call; and likewise subtract New Hampshire's surplus of 1500 from her 4000 leaves 2500 as her quota on the pending call. These 3500 & 2500 make precisely the 6000 which the supposed case requires from the two states; and it is just---equal---for Vermont to furnish 1000 more now than New Hampshire, because New Hampshire has heretofore furnished a 1000 more than Vermont which equalizes the burthens of the two in the long run. And this result so far from being bad faith to Vermont is indispensable to keeping good faith with New Hampshire. By no other result can the 6000 men be obtained from the two states and at the same time deal justly and keep faith with both; and we do but confuse ourselves in questioning the process by which the right result is reached. The supposed case is perfect as an illustration. The pending call is not for 300,000 men subject to fair credits, but is for 300,000 remaining after all fair credits have been deducted; and it is impossible to concede what Vermont asks, without coming out short of the 300,000 men, or making other localities pay for the partiality shown her. This upon the case stated---if there be different reasons for making an allowance to Vermont let them be presented and considered. Yours truly

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 8, 1865.
Hon. E. M. Stanton, Secretary of War. Do not fail to have an interview with this most extraordinary and intelligent black man. A. LINCOLN.

To George C. Cadwalader
Major General Cadwallader Executive Mansion, Philadelphia Washington, 9 February, 1865.
Please suspend execution in case of Thomas Adams, 186th Pa Vols & send record to me. A. LINCOLN Maj: Eckert Please send above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

To George W. Getty
Commanding General Executive Mansion, Sixth Army Corps, Washington, February 9th., 1865.
Suspend the execution of the sentence of Private James L. Hycks 67 Pa Vols, until further orders. A. LINCOLN Major Eckert The President request that you will send the above. The man was to have been executed on 10th inst. EDW D NEILL Sec: to Pres: US. etc

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lieutenant General Grant: February 9, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of Hugh F. Riley, eleventh Mass Vols. now in front of Petersburg, until further orders, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN. Maj: Eckert Please send above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

To John Eaton
Col Eaton: February 10, 1865
You will continue your supervision of Freedmen over the same territory & on the same principles as in the past, making such improvements as experiences may suggest, until legislation shall require some farther change A. LINCOLN Feb. 10. 1865

To the House of Representatives
February 10, 1865
To the Honorable, the House of Representatives. In response to your resolution of the 8th. Inst. requesting information in relation to a conference recently held in Hampton Roads I have the honor to state that on the day of the date I gave Francis P. Blair sent a card written on as follows, towit:  Allow the bearer, F. P. Blair, Senr. to pass our lines, go South and return Dec. 28. 1864 A. LINCOLN That at the time I was informed that Mr. Blair sought the card as a means of getting to Richmond, Va. but he was given no authority to speak or act for the government; nor was I informed of any thing he would say or do on his own account, or otherwise. Afterwards Mr. Blair told me that he had been to Richmond, and had seen Mr. Jefferson Davis; and he Mr. B. at the same time left with me a manuscript letter, as follows, towit:  F. P. Blair Esqr. Richmond Va Sir: 12 Jany 65 I have deemed it proper and probably desirable to you to give you in this form the substance of remarks made by me to be repeated by you to Presdt. Lincoln &c &c I have no disposition to find obstacles in forms, and am willing now as heretofore to enter into negociations for the restoration of Peace; am ready to send a commission whenever I have reason to suppose it will be received, or to receive a commission if the U.S. Govt. shall choose to send one. That notwithstanding the rejection of our former offers, I would if you could promise, that a Commissioner, Minister or other Agent would be received, appoint one immediately and renew the effort to enter into conference with a view to secure peace to the two countries. Yrs &c JEFFN DAVIS Afterwards, and with the view that it should be shown to Mr. Davis I wrote and delivered to Mr. Blair a letter as follows, to-wit:  F. P. Blair, Esq Washington, Sir: Jan. 18. 1865 Your having shown me Mr. Davis' letter to you of the 12th. Inst. you may say to him that I have constantly been, am now, and shall continue, ready to receive any agent whom he, or any other influential person now resisting the national authority, may informally send to me with the view of securing peace to the people of our one common country. Yours &c A. LINCOLN. Afterwards Mr. Blair dictated for and authorized me to make an entry on the back of my retained copy of the letter last above recited, which entry is as follows.  January 28. 1865 To-day Mr. Blair tells me that on the 21st. Inst. he delivered to Mr. Davis the original of which the within is a copy, and left it with him; that at the time of delivering it, Mr. Davis read it over twice in Mr. Blair's presence, at the close of which he, Mr. B. remarked that the part about ``our one common country'' related to the part of Mr. D's letter about ``the two countries'' to which Mr. D. replied that he so understood it. A. LINCOLN Afterwards the Secretary of War placed in my hands the following telegram, indorsed by him, as appears.  Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Cipher War Department. The following Telegram received at Washington, M. Jan 29. 1865. From Hd Qrs Army of James 6.30 pm 1865. Hon. Edwin M. Stanton. Secretary of War. Jan. 29. The following dispatch just rec'd from Maj. Gen. Parke, who refers it to me for my action. I refer it to you in Lieut Gen. Grant's absence. E. O. C. ORD Maj. Gen. Comd'g ``Hd Qrs A of Potomac 4 P.M. Jan. 29. 1865. Maj. Gen. E. O. C. Ord Hd Qrs A of J. The following dispatch is forwarded to you, for your action. Since I have no knowledge of Gen. Grant's having had any understanding of this kind I refer the matter to you as the ranking officer present in the two Armies. Signed JNO. G. PARKE ``Maj. Gen. Comd'g.'' ``From Hd Qrs 9th A. Corps 29. Maj. Gen. Jno. G. Parke, Hd Qrs A. of P. Alex H. Stevens, R. M. T. Hunter & W. J. A. Campbell desire to cross my lines in accordance with an understanding claimed to exist with Lt. Gen Grant, on their way to Washington as peace Commissioners. Shall they be admitted? They desire an early answer to come through immediately Would like to reach City Point tonight if they can. If they cannot do this they would like to come through at 10 A.M. tomorrow morning. Signed O. B. WILCOX Maj Gen. Cmdg ``9th Corps'' Respectfully referred to the President for his instructions as he may be pleased to give EDWIN M STANTON Sec of War 8.30 PM Jan 29. 1865 It appears that about the time of placing the foregoing telegram in my hands, the Secretary of War despached Gen. Ord as follows, to-wit:  Copy War Department Washington City Maj Gen Ord. Jany 29th 1865 10. P.M This Department has no knowledge of any understanding by Genl Grant to allow any person to come within his lines as commissioners of any sort. You will therefore allow no one to come into your lines under such character or profession, until you receive the President's instructions, to whom your telegram will be submitted for his directions (signed) EDWIN M. STANTON Sec'y of War Sent in Cipher at 2. A.M. 30th Afterwards, by my direction, the Secretary of War telegraphed Gen. Ord as follows, towit:  Copy. Maj. Gen. E. O. C. Ord, War Department Washington D.C. Hd. Qrs. Army James. 10.30 A.M. January 30.1865. By direction of the President you are instructed to inform the three gentlemen, Messrs Stephens, Hunter and Campbell, that a messenger will be dispatched to them at, or near where they now are, without unnecessary delay. Signed EDWIN M. STANTON Secretary of War. Afterwards I prepared and put into the hands of Major Thomas T. Eckert, the following instructions and message.  Major T. T. Eckert Executive Mansion Sir. Washington, Jan. 30. 1865 You will proceed with the documents placed in your hands; and, on reaching Gen. Ord, will deliver him the letter addressed to him by the Secretary of War; then, by Gen. Ord's assistance, procure an interview with Messrs. Stephens Hunter and Campbell, or any of them, deliver to him or them the paper on which your own letter is written, note on the copy which you retain, the time of delivery and to whom delivered, receive their answer in writing waiting a reasonable time for it, and which, if it contain their decision to come through, without further condition, will be your warrant to ask Gen Ord to pass them through as directed in the letter of the Secretary of War to him. If by their answer they decline to come, or propose other terms, do not not [ sic ] have the [m] passed through. And this being your whole duty, return and report to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN Messrs Alex H. Stephens, J. A. Campbell & R. M. T. Hunter Gentlemen: I am instructed by the President of the United States to place this paper in your hands with the information that if you pass through the U.S. Military lines it will be understood that you do so for the purpose of an informal conference, on the basis of the letter, a copy of which is on the reverse side of this sheet, and that if you choose to pass on such understanding, and so notify me in writing, I will procure the Commanding General to pass you through the lines, and to Fortress-Monroe, under such military precautions as he may deem prudent; and, at which place you will be met in due time by some person or persons for the purpose of such informal conference. And further that you shall have protection, safe-conduct, and safe return, in all events. THOS. T. ECKERT. City Point Va. Maj & A.D.C. February 1st. 1865. Afterwards, but before Major Eckert had departed, the following despatch was received from Gen. Grant  Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Cipher War Department. The following Telegram received at Washington, M. Jan. 31. 1865. His Excellency Abraham Lincoln. From City Point Va. President of the U.S. 10.30 AM Jan. 31. 1865. The following communication was received here last evening. ``Lieut. Gen. U. S. Grant Petersburg Va. Comd'g Armies U.S. Jan. 30. 1865. Sir: We desire to pass your lines under safe conduct and to proceed to Washington to hold a conference with President Lincoln upon the subject of the existing war, and with a view of ascertaining upon what terms it may be terminated, in pursuance of the course indicated by him in his letter to Mr Blair of January 18th. 1865, of which we presume you have a copy, and if not, we wish to see you in person if convenient, and to confer with you upon the subject. Signed, Very Respy Yours ALEXANDER STEVENS J. A. CAMPBELL R. M. T. HUNTER'' I have sent directions to receive these gentlemen and expect to have them at my Quarters this evening awaiting your instructions. U. S. GRANT Lieut Genl Comdg Armies US This, it will be perceived, transferred Gen. Ord's agency in the matter to Gen. Grant. I resolved, however to send Major Eckert forward with his Message, and accordingly telegraphed Gen. Grant as follows, towit:  Telegram copy . Lieut Genl Grant Executive Mansion City Point Va. Washington Jany 31st. 1865 A messenger is coming to you on the business contained in your despatch. Detain the gentlemen in comfortable quarters until he arrives and then act upon the message he brings, as far as applicable, it having been made up to pass through Genl Ord's hands, and when the gentlemen were supposed to be beyond our lines (signed) A. LINCOLN Sent in Cipher at 1.30. P.M. When Major Eckert departed he bore with him a letter of the Secretary of War to Gen. Grant as follows, towit:  Letter Copy War Department Washington D.C. Lt Genl Grant Comd'g &c. Jany 30th 1865 General: The President desires that you will please procure for the bearer, Major Thomas T. Eckert, an interview with Messrs Stephens, Hunter, & Campbell,---and if on his return to you he requests it---pass them through our lines to Fortress Monroe by such route and under such Military precautions as you may deem prudent, giving them protection & comfortable quarters while there; and that you let none of this, have any effect upon your movements or plans. By order of the President (signed) EDWIN M. STANTON Secretary of War Supposing the proper point to be then reached I despatched the Secretary of State with the following instructions, Major Eckert, however, going ahead of him.  Hon. William H. Seward. Executive Mansion Secretary of State. Washington, Jan. 31. 1865 You will proceed to Fortress-Monroe, Virginia, there to meet, and informally confer with Messrs. Stephens, Hunter, and Campbell, on the basis of my letter to F. P. Blair, Esq. of Jan. 18. 1865, a copy of which you have. You will make known to them that three things are indispensable, towit: 1 The restoration of the National authority throughout all the States. 2 No receding by the Executive of the United States, on the Slavery question, from the position assumed thereon, in the late Annual Message to Congress, and on preceding documents. 3 No cessation of hostilities short of an end of the war, and the disbanding of all forces hostile to the government. You will inform them that all propositions of theirs, not inconsistent with the above, will be considered and passed upon, in a spirit of sincere liberality. You will hear all they may choose to say, and report it to me. You will not assume to definitely consummate any thing. Yours &c ABRAHAM LINCOLN. On the day of it's date the following telegram was sent to Gen. Grant.  Telegram Copy . Lieut Genl Grant War Department Washington D.C. City Point Va. Feby 1st. 1865 Let nothing which is transpiring, change, hinder, or delay your Military movements, or plans (signed) A. LINCOLN Sent in cipher at 9.30 a.m Afterwards the following despatch was received from Gen. Grant.  In Cipher Office U.S. Military Telegraph, War Department. The following Telegram received at Washington, 2.30 P.M. Feby 1st. 1865 His Excellency A. Lincoln From City Point Va Prest U.S. Feb'y 1st. 12.30 P.M 1865 Your despatch received; there will be no armistice in consequence of the presence of Mr Stephens and others within our lines. The troops are kept in readiness to move at the shortest notice if occasion should justify it U. S. GRANT Lieut Genl To notify Major Eckert that the Secretary of State would be at Fortress-Monroe, and to put them in communication the following despatch was sent.  Telegram Copy Maj T. T. Eckert War Department Washington D.C. Care Genl Grant City Point Va. Feby 1st. 1865 Call at Fortress Monroe & put yourself under direction of Mr S. whom you will find there (signed) A. LINCOLN Sent in cipher at 5.30 P.M. On the morning of the 2nd. Inst. the following telegrams were received by me respectively from the Secretary of State and Major Eckert.  Recd 4. 30 AM Feb 2nd United States Military Telegraph, In cipher War Department. The President U.S. Fort Monroe Va 11 30 PM Feb 1. 1865 Arrived at ten (10) this evening. Richmond party not here. I remain here. WM H. SEWARD Recd United States Military Telegraph, In cipher Feb 2nd. War Department. His Excellency A Lincoln City Point Va President U.S. 10 PM Feb 1. 1865 I have the honor to report the delivery of your communication and my letter at four fifteen 4. 15 this afternoon, to which I received a reply at six (6) P.M, but not satisfactory. At eight (8) PM the following note addressed to Genl Grant was received.  To ``Lt Gen Grant, City Point Va Sir, Feb 1. 1865'' ``We desire to go to Washington City to confer informally with the President personally in reference to the matters mentioned in his letter to Mr Blair of the eighteenth 18th January ultimo, without any personal compromise on any question in the letter. ``We have the permission to do so from the authorities in Richmond.'' Very Respectfully Yours'' (signed) ``ALEX H. STEPHENS ``R. M T. HUNTER ``J. A CAMPBELL'' At nine thirty (9.30) P.M I notified them that they could not proceed further unless they complied with the terms expressed in my letter. The point of meeting designated, in above note, would not in my opinion, be insisted upon Think Fort Monroe would be acceptable. Having complied with my instructions, I will return to Washington to-morrow unless otherwise ordered. THOS T. ECKERT Maj &c On reading this despatch of Major Eckert I was about to recall him and the Secretary of State when the following telegram of Gen. Grant to the Secretary of War was shown me.  Office U.S. Military Telegraph, In cipher War Department. The following Telegram received at Washington, 4.35 A.M. Feby 2nd. 1865 From City Point Va. Feby 1st. 10.30 P.M 1865 Hon Edwin M Stanton Secy of War. Now that the interview between Maj. Eckert, under his written instructions, and Mr Stevens & party, has ended I will state confidentially, but not officially to become a matter of record, that I am convinced, upon conversation with Messrs Stevens & Hunter that their intentions are good and their desire sincere to restore peace and union. I have not felt myself at liberty to express even views of my own or to account for my reticency. This has placed me in an awkward position which I could have avoided by not seeing them in the first instance. I fear now their going back without any expression from any one in authority will have a bad influence. At the same time I recognize the difficulties in the way of receiving these informal commissioners at this time and do not know what to recommend. I am sorry however that Mr Lincoln cannot have an interview with the two named in this despatch if not all three now within our lines. Their letter to me was all that the Presidents instructions contemplated, to secure their safe conduct if they had used the same language to Maj Eckert (signed) U.S. GRANT Lt Genl This despatch of Gen. Grant changed my purpose; and, accordingly, I telegraphed him and the Secretary of State respectively as follow.  Copy . War Department Lieut Genl Grant Washington D.C. City Point Va. Feby 2nd. 1865 Say to the gentlemen I will meet them personally at Fortress Monroe as soon as I can get there (signed) A. LINCOLN Sent in cipher at 9.A.M. Copy War Department Hon Wm. H. Seward Washington D.C. Fortress Monroe Va. Feby 2nd. 1865 Induced by a despatch from Genl Grant, I join you at Fort Monroe as soon as I can come (signed) A. LINCOLN Sent in cipher at 9. A.M. Before starting the following despatch was shown me; I proceeded nevertheless.  Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Cipher War Department. The following Telegram received at Washington, M. Feby. 2d. 1865 From City Point Va 9 A.M. Feby. 2d. 1865 Hon Wm. H. Seward Secretary of State Ft. Monroe Copy to Hon. Edwin M. Stanton Secretary of War Wash. The gentlemen here have accepted the proposed terms and will leave for Ft. Monroe at 9.30 A.M. U.S. GRANT Lt. Genl. On the night of the 2nd. I reached Hampton Roads found the Secretary of State and Major Eckert on a Steamer anchored off shore, and learned of them that the Richmond gentlemen were on another Steamer also anchored off shore in the Roads, and that the Secretary of State had not yet seen, or communicated with them. Here I ascertained that Major Eckert had litterally complied with his instructructions [ sic ] and I saw, for the first, the answer of the Richmond gentlemen to him, which in his despatch to me of the 1st. he characterizes as ``not satisfactory.[''] That answer is as follows, towit:  Copy Thomas J. [T.] Eckert City Point Va. Major & A.D.C. Feby 1st. 1865 Major. Your note delivered by yourself this day has been considered. In reply we have to say that we were furnished with a copy of the letter of President Lincoln to Francis P. Blair Esq of the 18th of Jany ult. another copy of which is appended to your note. Our instructions are contained in a letter of which the following is a copy. ``Richmond Jany 28th 1865 ``In conformity with the letter of Mr Lincoln of which the foregoing is a copy, you are to proceed to Washington City for informal conference with him upon the issues involved in the existing war and for the purpose of securing peace to the two countries. With great respect Your ob't Servt (signed) JEFFERSON DAVIS'' The substantial object to be obtained by the informal conference is, to ascertain upon what terms the existing war can be terminated honorably. Our instructions contemplate a personal interview between President Lincoln and ourselves at Washington City, but with this explanation we are ready to meet any person or persons that President Lincoln may appoint, at such place as he may designate. Our earnest desire is that a just and honorable peace may be agreed upon, and we are prepared to receive or to submit propositions which may, possibly, lead to the attainment of that end. Very Respectfully Yours (signed) ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS R. M. T. HUNTER JOHN A. CAMPBELL A note of these gentlemen, subsequently addressed to Gen. Grant, has already been given in Major Eckert's despatch of the 1st. Inst. I also here saw, for the first [time], the following note addressed by the Richmond gentlemen to Major Eckert:  Copy . Thomas C. [T.] Eckert City Point Va. Major & A.D.C. Feby 2nd. 1865 Major. In reply to your verbal statement that your instructions did not allow you to alter the conditions upon which a passport could be given to us, we say that we are willing to proceed to Fortress Monroe and there to have an informal conference with any person or persons that President Lincoln may appoint on the basis of his letter to Francis P. Blair of the 18th of Jan'y ult. or upon any other terms, or conditions that he may hereafter propose not inconsistent with the essential principles of self government and popular rights upon which our institutions are founded. It is our earnest wish to ascertain after a free interchange of ideas and information, upon what principles and terms, if any, a just and honorable peace can be established without the further effusion of blood, and to contribute our utmost efforts to accomplish such a result. We think it better to add that in accepting your passport we are not to be understood as committing ourselves to anything, but to carry to this informal conference the views and feelings above expressed. Very Respectfully Yours &c (signed) ALEXANDER H. STEPHENS J. A. CAMPBELL R. M. T. HUNTER Note The above communication was delivered to me at Fort Monroe at 4.30 P.M. Feby 2nd. by Lieut Col Babcock of Gen'l Grants Staff (signed) THOS T. ECKERT Maj & A.D.C On the morning of the 3rd., the three gentlemen, Messrs Stephens, Hunter and Campbell, came aboard of our Steamer and had an interview with the Secretary of State and myself of several hours duration. No question of preliminaries to the meeting was then and there made or mentioned. No other person was present; no papers were exchanged, or produced; and it was, in advance, agreed that the conversation was to be informal, and verbal merely.  On our part, the whole substance of the instructions to the Secretary of State, herein before recited, was stated and insisted upon, and nothing was said inconsistently therewith; while, by the other party it was not said that, in any event, or on any condition, they ever would consent to re-union, and yet they equally omitted to declare that they never would so consent. They seemed to desire a postponement of that question, and the adoption of some other course first, which, as some of them, seemed to argue, might, or might not, lead to re-union, but which course, we thought, would amount to an indefinite postponement. The conferrence ended without result. The foregoing, containing, as is believed, all the information sought, is respectfully submitted.  Executive Mansion, ABRAHAM LINCOLN February 10th, 1865.

To Edward O. C. Ord

Will Gen. Ord please see & hear these ladies on the within? Feb. 10, 1865 A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning E. R. Scott
Executive Mansion, Feb. 10, 1865
Let Captain Scott be paroled and bailed to Lieutenant General Scott. A. LINCOLN

To David D. Porter
Executive Mansion, February 10, 1865.
Sir: It is made my agreeable duty to enclose herewith the joint resolution approved 24th January, 1865, tendering the thanks of Congress to yourself, the officers and men under your command, for their gallantry and good conduct in the capture of Fort Fisher, and through you to all who participated in that brilliant and decisive victory under your command. Very respectfully, Rear-Admiral David D. Porter, ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Commanding North Atlantic Squadron, Hampton Roads, Virginia.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States. February 10, 1865
In answer to the Resolution of the Senate of the 8th instant, requesting information concerning recent conversations or communications with insurgents, under executive sanction, I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State, to whom the Resolution was referred. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, 10th February, 1865.

To James Speed

Please file. I have sent to the Senate a nomination of Richard W. Thompson of Indiana to fill the vacancy. A. LINCOLN Feb. 10. 1865.

To Alexander H. Stephens
Executive Mansion Hon. A. H. Stephens Washington, Feb. 10, 1865
According to our agreement, your nephew, Lieut. Stephens, goes to you, bearing this note. Please, in return, to select and send to me, that officer of the same rank, imprisoned at Richmond, whose physical condition most urgently requires his release Respectfully A. LINCOLN

To Henry B. Anthony and William Sprague
February 11, 1865
I would like to give Mr. Hammond some tolerably good appointment; but understanding that giving him the place of Internal Revenue Collector in his District, would be embarrassing or disagreeable to Senators Anthony and Sprague, I will thank them to make an effort to find something respectable for him which, would not be disagreeable to them. A. LINCOLN Feb. 11. 1865.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Lieut Genl. Grant Washington Feby [c.11] 1865.
City Point. Dr. Ray whom you know will talk to you about a certain matter about which I would like your opinion informally expressed. Yours Very Respectfully A. LINCOLN.

To Pierce B. Hawkins
P. B. Hawkins Executive Mansion Frankfort, Ky Washington Feb. 11. 1865
Gen. Burbridge may discharge W. E. Waller, if he thinks fit. A. LINCOLN

To Heads of Departments
Washington, Feb. 11, 1865.
Will the Head of any Department to whom this card may be presented, give the bearer, Mr. Hammond, an interview? A. LINCOLN.

To Edward O. C. Ord
Major Genl. Ord Executive Mansion, Army of James. Washington, Feb. 11, 1865
Suspend execution of sentence in case of Major T. C. Jameson & send me the record. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Abraham U. Colby

Let this gentleman & wife pass from New York to Savannah. Feb. 11. 1865. A. LINCOLN

Pass for John T. Heard

Surgeon J. Theodore Heard is allowed to visit Washington, D.C, provided he does not overstay his Leave of Absence. Feb. 11. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To James Speed

Atty. Genl. make out pardon for unexpired part of sentence. Feb. 11, 1865. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Sec. of War please see & hear the bearer & do as well for those he represents as we have heretofore done for ``Friends''? Feb. 11. 1865. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Sir Washington, Feb. 11, 1865.
On a petition presented to me I have concluded to not allow the death penalty to be enforced on Norman L. King; but I wish to see Mr. Holt's review of the evidence, before finally disposing of the case. Please have it made and sent to me. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
[c. February 11, 1865?]
Hon. Sec. of Navy, please give the bearer, Mr. Hammond, a short interview A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Daniel M. Taylor

West Point. Daniel Morgan Taylor. This is a good letter, written by the boy himself. A. LINCOLN. Feb. 12, 1865.

To Joseph Hooker
Major General Hooker Executive Mansion Cincinnati, O. Washington, Feb. 12. 1865
Is it Lieut. Samuel B. Davis whose death sentence is commuted? If not done, let it be done. Is there not an associate of his also in trouble? Please answer. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. Edward Byrne

Allow Mrs. Edward Byrne to pass our lines Northward, and go Louisville, Ky. A. LINCOLN Feb. 12. 1865

Pass for Mrs. Willis F. Jones

Allow Mrs. Willis F. Jones to pass our lines with ordinary baggage, go South & return. A. LINCOLN Feb. 12. 1865

To John Pope
Major Genl. Pope Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Feb. 12, 1865.
I understand that Provost-Marshals in different parts of Missouri are assuming to decide that the conditions of bonds are forfeited, and thereupon are seizing and selling property to pay damages. This, if true, is both outrageous and ridiculous. Do not allow it. The courts and not Provost-Marshals, are to decide such questions, only when military necessity makes an exception. Also excuse John Ecton of Clay Co. & Wesley Martin of Platte from being sent South & let them go East, if anywhere. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 12, 1865
In a long verbal conversation with me Judge Fisher assured, as within, of his confident belief that Dr. Worrell is partially insane. I suppose that on this ground, he should be discharged. Feb. 12. 1865 A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Garrett Davis
February 13, 1865
I personally know Senator Davis to be of the highest moral character, and I still wish these prisoners discharged, because he asks it, notwithstanding others, or another may have attempted wrong in the matter. A. LINCOLN Feb. 13. 1865

To Military Officers Commanding in West Tennessee
To the Military Officers Washington, Commanding in West-Tennessee. Feb. 13. 1865
While I can not order as within requested, allow me to say that it is my wish for you to relieve the people from all burthens, harrassments, and oppressions, so far as is possible, consistently with your Military necessities; that the object of the war being to restore and maintain the blessings of peace and good government, I desire you to help, and not hinder, every advance in that direction. Of your Military necessities you must judge and execute; but please do so in the spirit and with the purpose above indicated. A. LINCOLN.

Order Concerning Waller R. Bulloch

Allow Lieut. Waller R. Bulloch to be paroled and go to his parents in Baltimore, and remain there until well enough to be exchanged. Feb. 13, 1865 A. LINCOLN.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
February 13, 1865
To the Senate and House of Representatives. I transmit to Congress a copy of a despatch of the 12th. ultimo addressed to the Secretary of State by the Minister Resident of the United States at Stockholm, relating to an International Exhibition to be held at Bergen, in Norway, during the coming summer. The expediency of any legislation upon the subject is submitted for your consideration. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, February 13th. 1865.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
February 13, 1865
To the Senate and House of Representatives, I transmit to Congress a copy of a note of the 2nd. instant addressed to the Secretary of State by the Commander J. C. de Figaniere e Morai, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of His Most Faithful Majesty the King of Portugal, calling attention to a proposed International Exhibition at the City of Oporto, to be opened in August next, and inviting contributions thereto of the products of American manufactures and industry. The expediency of any legislation upon the subject is submitted for your consideration. ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington, February 13th. 1865.

To Philip H. Sheridan
Major General Sheridan Executive Mansion, Winchester Va. Washington, 13 February, 1865.
Suspend execution of sentence in case of James Lynch alias Hennessy, until further orders and send record to me. Please acknowledge receipt of this. A. LINCOLN. Maj. Eckert Please send above Telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

To John Pope
Major Genl. Pope. Executive Mansion St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Feb. 14. 1865
Yours of yesterday about Provost-Marshal system, received. As part of the same subject let me say I am now pressed in regard to a pending assessment in St. Louis County. Please examine & satisfy yourself whether this assessment should proceed or be abandoned, and if you decide that it is to proceed, please examine as to the propriety of its application to a gentleman by the name of Charles McLaran. A. LINCOLN

To Philip H. Sheridan
Executive Mansion, Major General Sheridan: Washington, Feb'y 14, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of James Brown, fixed for the 17th inst., at Harpers Ferry, until further orders and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN Maj. Eckert Please send above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

To James Speed

Please make a commutation of this case as suggested within. Feb. 14. 1865 A. LINCOLN Atty. Genl.

To Alfred Sully
To the Commanding Officer, Executive Mansion, Davenport, Iowa, Washington, February 14, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of John C. Brown alias Wm A. Craven, and of John Ble alias Cohoe until further orders and send records for examination A. LINCOLN Major Eckert Please send the above dispatch JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv: Sec:

Authorization for Charles H. Ray
February 15, 1865
With the approval in writing of the Department commanders whose lines are to be crossed, and not without, Charles H Ray, of Illinois, is authorized to take beyond said lines such articles, not contraband, nor capable of aiding or sustaining the army or forces of the enemy, as he may choose; and to bring products in return, subject to Treasury regulations and not otherwise; and to move both ways, while acting only in strict accordance with this permission, without seizure or molestation. A LINCOLN Feby 15th 1865.

Order Concerning Prisoners
Executive Mansion, Washington City, D.C. February 15. 1865.
The Penitentiary at Albany, N.Y.; the State Prison at Clinton, N.Y.; the Penitentiary at Columbus, Ohio; the Penitentiary at Jefferson City, Missouri; and such other prisons as the Secretary of War may designate for the confinement of prisoners under sentence of Courts Martial shall be deemed and taken to be military prisons. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To John Pope
Major General Pope. Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Feb. 15, 1865.
Please ascertain whether Gen. Fisk's administration is as good as it might be, and answer me. A. LINCOLN

To Hanson A. Risley
February 15, 1865
Will Mr. Risley please see and hear Mrs. Baldwin, the bearer, who is of the McCook family, so many of whom have gallantly fallen in this war? A. LINCOLN Feb. 15, 1865

To Philip H. Sheridan
Major Genl. Sheridan Executive Mansion, &c &c Washington, 15 February, 1865.
Suspend execution in case of Luther T. Palmer 5th N.Y. Artillery for fourteen (14) days and send record to me for examination. John Hay A.A.G. A LINCOLN

To Philip H. Sheridan
Executive Mansion, Major General Sheridan Washington, Feb'y 15, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of William Randall, at Harper's Ferry, of 5th N.Y. Heavy Artillery, until further orders, and forward record of trial for examination. A. LINCOLN. Maj: Eckert Please send the above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

Endorsement

If the services are needed let this appointment be made. Feb. 16. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Lieutenant General Grant Washington, Feb'y 16, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of George W. Brown, Company A fifteenth New-York Engineers, now at City-Point, until further orders, and forward record for examination A. LINCOLN. Maj. Eckert Please send the above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Lieutenant General Grant: Washington, Feb'y 16, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of Charles Love, Seventh New-Hampshire Vols. at City-Point until further orders, and forward record for examination A. LINCOLN Major Eckert Please send the above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

To Edward D. Neill

Mr. Neil may have this. A. LINCOLN. February 16, 1865.

Order Concerning R. H. Baptist
Executive Mansion, Washington, February 16, 1865.
Let Captain R. H. Baptiste, a Prisoner of War at Johnson's Island, be paroled for special Exchanges and suffered to go South. This order is given at the special request of Mr. George D. Prentice. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Mrs. John F. Slaughter

Allow Mrs. Slaughter, children & servant, with ordinary baggage, to pass our lines and go South. A. LINCOLN Feb. 16, 1865.

To Charles A. Dana

Let Capt. Burgoyne be paroled in the way that Senator Collamer may ask. A. LINCOLN. Feb. 17. 1865.

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion Judge Advocate General Washington, Feb. 17. 1865
In regard to the Baltimore and Washington Merchants---clothes dealers---convicted mostly on the testimony of one Worsley (I believe) I have not been quite satisfied. I can not say that the presumption in favor of their innocence has not been shaken; and yet it is very unsatisfactory to me that so many men of fair character should be convicted principally on the testimony of one single man & he of not quite fair character. It occurs to me that they have suffered enough, even if guilty, and enough for example I propose giving them a jubilee, in which course the Sec. of War inclines to concur; but he tells me you are opposed. I write this to ask your cheerful concurrence. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Joseph D. Hart

If Joseph D Hart shall pass through Baltimore as a prisoner, allow him to be paroled and remain there with his sister two days. Feb. 17. 1865 A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Convening the Senate in Extra Session
February 17, 1865
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas objects of interest to the United States require that the Senate should be convened at twelve o'clock on the Fourth of March next, to receive and act upon such communications as may be made to it on the part of the Executive: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, have considered it to be my duty to issue this my Proclamation, declaring that an extraordinary occasion requires the Senate of the United States to convene for the transaction of business at the Capitol, in the city of Washington, on the Fourth day of March next, at twelve o'clock at noon on that day, of which all who shall at that time be entitled to act as members of that body, are hereby required to take notice. [L.S.] Given under my hand and the seal of the United States at Washington, the seventeenth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America, the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD Secretary of State.

To John D. Stevenson
Officer in command Executive Mansion, at Harper's Ferry Washington, February 17, 1865.
Chaplain Fitzgibbon yesterday sent me a dispatch invoking clemency for Jackson Stewart and Randall who are to be shot today The dispatch is so vague that there is no means here of ascertaining, whether or not the execution of sentence of one or more of them may not already have been ordered. If not suspend execution of sentence in their cases until further orders and forward records of trails for examination. A. LINCOLN Maj. Eckert Please send above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

To Alfred Sully
Officer in command at Executive Mansion, Davenport Iowa. Washington, February 17, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of Wm A. Craven for four weeks, and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN Maj. Eckert Please send above telegram JNO. G. NICOLAY

To Napoleon J. T. Dana
Major General Dana; Washington, Feb 18. 1865
Allow the bearers of this paper to prove to you if they can, that the foregoing statement of facts made on their representation, by the Secretary of the Treasury is substantially true; and on their doing so to your satisfaction, in a reasonable degree, allow them to bring out the products in the manner, and on the terms indicated by the Secretary of the Treasury in the foregoing letter. The change of lines, if true as stated, justifies the dealing with the case, and similar cases, as special ones. Yours &c A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Edwin Sprague
February 18, 1865
Upon this boy's faithfully serving out his enlistment in the Naval service he is pardoned for any desertion from the army heretofore committed. A. LINCOLN Feb. 18. 1865

Pass

Allow Mrs. daughter of Judge Young to pass our lines and come to Washington. A. LINCOLN Feb. 18, 1865

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 19, 1865
I know nothing of Col. Briscoe; nor have I taken any supervision in the organization of Hancock's new Corps.  Hence I submit these papers to the Sec. of War, simply remarking that they seem to be good and ample. A. LINCOLN Feb. 19. 1865.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Will the Sec. of War please do one or the other, for Gen. Orme as requested? A. LINCOLN Feb. 19. 1865.

To James G. Bennett
James G. Bennett, Esq. Executive Mansion Dear Sir: Washington, Feb. 20, 1865
I propose, at some convenient, and not distant day, to nominate you to the United States' Senate, as Minister to France. Your Obt. Servt. A. LINCOLN.

To Thomas C. Fletcher
His Excellency Executive Mansion Gov. Fletcher, Washington Feb 20 1865
It seems that there is now no organized military force of the enemy in Missouri and yet that destruction of property and life is rampant every where. Is not the cure for this within easy reach of the people themselves? It cannot but be that every man, not naturally a robber or cut-throat would gladly put an end to this state of things. A large majority in every locality must feel alike upon this subject; and if so they only need to reach an understanding one with another. Each leaving all others alone solves the problem. And surely each would do this but for his apprehension that others will not leave him alone. Can not this mischievous distrust be removed? Let neighborhood meetings be every where called and held, of all entertaining a sincere purpose for mutual security in the future, whatever they may heretofore have thought, said or done about the war or about anything else. Let all such meet and waiving all else pledge each to cease harassing others and to make common cause against whomever persists in making, aiding or encouraging further disturbance. The practical means they will best know how to adopt and apply. At such meetings old friendships will cross the memory; and honor and Christian Charity will come in to help. Please consider whether it may not be well to suggest this to the now afflicted people of Missouri. Yours truly [A. LINCOLN.]

To Joseph Holt

Pardon on condition of faithfully serving out his term. Feb. 20. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Ella Steele
Executive Mansion Miss Ella Steele Washington, Feb. 20. 1865
With pleasure I send the autograph. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Alfred Sully
Officer in Command at Executive Mansion Davenport, Iowa. Washington, Feb. 20. 1865
Suspend execution of Henry Cole alias Henry Cohe, until further order, and send record. A. LINCOLN

To James Speed

The Attorney General will please cause a pardon in this case to be prepared. A. LINCOLN Feb. 21, 1865

To Stephen G. Burbridge
Officer in command at Executive Mansion, Lexington, Ky. Washington, Feb. 22. 1865.
Send forthwith record of the trial of C. K. Johnson. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement

Let this appointment be made, if the service is needed. Feb. 22, 1865 A. LINCOLN

To William P. Fessenden
Executive Mansion, My Dear Sir: Washington, 22 February, 1865.
Allow me to introduce the Honorable William Pickering, Governor of Washington Territory, who desires to see you upon official business. Your Obt. Servt., A. LINCOLN. The Secretary of the Treasury.

To Ethan A. Hitchcock
February 22, 1865
This case is respectfully submitted to Gen Hitchcock, with the remark that I would be pleased for Dr. English to be obliged if it can be done without detriment A. LINCOLN Feb. 22. 1865

To Ethan A. Hitchcock

I shall be glad for Gen. Paul to be obliged in this matter, if it can be without detriment. A. LINCOLN Feb. 22. 1865

To---King

Let Mr. King bring the papers of Lewis B. Dougherty Feb. 22. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I know not what to do with this persistent appeal. Can any thing be done? A. LINCOLN Feb. 22. 1865

EndorsementConcerning William B. Williamson

Let him be discharged. A. LINCOLN Feb. 23. 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lieutenant General Grant Feb'y 23, 1865.
Suspend execution of death sentence of George A. Maynard, Co. A 46th New-York Veteran Volunteers until further orders and forward record for examination. A. LINCOLN Maj. Eckert Please send the above telegram. JNO. G. NICOLAY Priv. Sec.

To Joseph Holt

Pardon, for unexecuted part of sentence & disability removed. Feb. 23. 1865 A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Elias Davis

Let Elias Davis, mentioned herein, be excepted from the operation of the order of Feb. 1. 1865 within made. A. LINCOLN Feb. 24. 1865.

Endorsement Concerning James S. Martin

I would like for the Brevet to be given. A. LINCOLN Feb. 24, 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
Cipher  Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., Feb. 24 1865
I am in a little perplexity. I was induced to authorize a gentleman to bring R. A. Pryor here with a view of effecting an exchange of him. But since then I have seen a despatch of yours showing that you specially object to his exchange. Meantime he has reached here & reported to me. It is an ungracious thing for me to send him back to prison, and yet inadmissable for him to remain here long. Can not you help me out with it? I can conceive that there may be difference to you in days; and I can keep him a few days to accommodate on that point. I have not heard of my son's reaching you. A LINCOLN

Order Concerning Hiram Hibbard
Executive Mansion Washington Feb. 24 1865
To-day Hiram Hibbard calls voluntarily under apprehension of being punished as a deserter Now on condition that he faithfully serves out his term Co. A. in 50th N Y. Engineers, he is fully pardoned for any supposed desertion A. LINCOLN

To John M. Palmer
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major Genl. Palmer War Department, Louisville, Ky. Washington, D.C., Feb. 24 1865
Please telegraph me an exact copy of the order of John C. Breckinridge borne by Col. Robert J. Breckinridge. A. LINCOLN

To John Pope
Major General Pope. Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, Feb. 24. 1865.
Please inquire and report to me whether there is any propriety of longer keeping in Gratiott Street prison, a man said to be there by the name of Riley Whiting. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
February 24, 1865
This letter is written by Gen. Palmer; & I personally know Dr. Stephenson & believe him to be a good man. I know nothing else about the case & refer it to the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN. Feb. 24, 1865.

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., Feb. 25 1865
Gen. Sheridan's despatch to you of to-day, in which he says he ``will be off on Monday'' and that he ``will leave behind about two thousand men'' causes the Secretary of War and myself considerable anxiety. Have you well considered whether you do not again leave open the Shenandoah-valley entrance to Maryland and Pennsylvania?---or, at least, to the B & O. Railroad? A. LINCOLN.

Pass for Roger A. Pryor

Allow the bearer, Roger A. Pryor, to pass to Gen. Grant, and report to him for exchange. A. LINCOLN Feb. 25. 1865

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 25, 1865
In compliance with the Resolution of the Senate of the 23d. instant, I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of War, with the accompanying General Orders No. 23, issued by Major General Banks, at New Orleans, February 3d, 1864. Washington, ABRAHAM LINCOLN February 25, 1864 .

To James Speed

Atty. Genl. please make out pardons in one or two cases which Col. Netherland will name. A. LINCOLN Feb. 25. 1865

To Henry W. Beecher
Rev. H. W. Beecher Executive Mansion My dear Sir Washington, Feb. 27. 1865
Yours of the 4th. and the 21st. reached me together only two days ago. I now thank you for both. Since you wrote the former the whole matter of the negotiations, if it can be so called, has been published, and you, doubtless, have seen it. When you were with me on the evening of the 1st. I had no thought of going in person to meet the Richmond gentlemen. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To---Dickson

Will Mr. Dickson, Chief Engineer of Hibernia please pump the water out of a certain well, which Tad will show? Feb. 27, 1865 A LINCOLN

To Thomas C. Fletcher
Gov. Fletcher Executive Mansion, Jefferson City, Mo. Washington, Feb. 27, 1865.
Have you received my letter of the 20th.? I think some such thing as therein suggested, is needed. If you put it before the people, I will direct the Military to co-operate. Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Gen. Grant War Department., City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., Feb. 27 1865
Subsequent reflection, conference with Gen. Halleck, your despatch, and one from Gen. Sheridan, have relieved my anxiety; and so I beg that you will dismiss any concern you may have on my account, in the matter of my last despatch. A LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt
Executive Mansion, Judge Advocate General Washington, Feb. 27, 1865.
Please procure the record, and report to me on the case of Edward Donahoe, Jr. about election frauds. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Recommendation for Charles C. Leigh

I heartily commend Mr. Leigh's object, and bid him God speed in it. A. LINCOLN Feb. 27. 1865.

Recommendation for Frederick Tompkins

I heartily commend Dr. Tomkin's object, and bid him God-speed in it. A. LINCOLN Feb. 27. 1865.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: February 27, 1865
I herewith lay before the Senate, for its constitutional action thereon, a treaty made and concluded with the Klamath and Modoc tribes of Indians of Oregon, at Fort Klamath, on the 5th [15th] day of October, 1864. A letter of the Secretary of the Interior, of this date, a copy of the report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs of the 24th instant, and a communication of the superintendent of Indian affairs in Oregon accompany the treaty. ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Executive Mansion, Washington, February 27, 1865.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir Washington, Feb. 27, 1865.
More than a year ago, as I remember, one Hall at Indianapolis was convicted of something in connection with a horse-contract, but Mr. Holt held the conviction to be illegal, and yet you thought the service would suffer by at once announcing the conviction null, and so it has been held along. Senator Hendricks,  knowing of Mr. Holt's decision, has frequently been pressing me, until about three months ago I promised, almost , to discharge the case, about this time. Can we not now do it, without detriment to the service? Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Charles A. Dana

Does Mr. Dana know about this case? A. LINCOLN Feb. 28. 1865.

To William Dennison
February 28, 1865
I know what our friend Corwine wants. He wants me to decide a matter in favor of his client, which I might possibly do if we were nearer the end of the war, but which, if driven to decide now, I should have to decide against him. A. LINCOLN Feb. 28. 1865.

To Thomas D. Eliot
February 28, 1865
If a majority of the Massachusetts delegation in Congress will, in writing on this sheet, request the pardon of this man, it shall be granted. A. LINCOLN Feb. 28. 1865 Attorney General please make out a pardon in this case. March. 2. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Hannibal Hamlin
Executive Mansion, Washington, D.C., February 28, 1865.
Sir: In reply to the resolution of the Senate, dated February 14, 1865, I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of War, forwarding a copy of the report of the court of inquiry in respect to the explosion of the mine in front of Petersburg. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, Hon. H. Hamlin ABRAHAM LINCOLN. President United States Senate.

To Ethan A. Hitchcock

Will Gen. Hitchcock please see & hear the bearer, Hon. A. A. C. Rogers, of Arkansas? A. LINCOLN Feb. 28. 1865.

To James Speed

Attorney General, please see Mr. King & make out the pardon he asks. A. LINCOLN Feb. 28. 1865.

To James Speed
February 28, 1865
Of course it is not proper for me to indulge my personal feelings exclusively in this matter, but I am very partial to Mr. Root.

To John D. Stevenson
Commanding Officer Executive Mansion, Harpers Ferry Va Washington, 28 February, 1865.
Let the sentence in case of Luther T. Palmer be suspended till further order. A. LINCOLN John Hay A.A.G.

To John P. Usher
[c. March, 1865]
This application is made on the idea that the incumbent is to go out at the end of four years. A.L.

To Thomas W. Conway
Mr. Thomas W. Conway, Executive Mansion, General Superintendent Washington, D.C., Freedmen, Department of the Gulf: March 1st, 1865.
Sir: Your statement to Major-General Hurlbut of the condition of the freedmen of your department, and of your success in the work of their moral and physical elevation, has reached me and given me much pleasure. That we shall be entirely successful in our efforts I firmly believe. The blessing of God and the efforts of good and faithful men will bring us an earlier and happier consummation than the most sanguine friends of the freedmen could reasonably expect. Yours, A. LINCOLN.

Endorsement
[March 1, 1865]
Please send A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please examine & report. Mar. 1, 1865 A. LINCOLN

Reply to Notification Committee
[March 1, 1865]
Having served four years in the depths of a great, and yet unended national peril, I can view this call to a second term, in nowise more flatteringly to myself, than as an expression of the public judgment, that I may better finish a difficult work, in which I have labored from the first, than could any one less severely schooled to the task. In this view, and with assured reliance on that Almighty Ruler who has so graceously sustained us thus far; and with increased gratitude to the generous people for their continued confidence, I accept the renewed trust, with it's yet onerous and perplexing duties and responsibilities. Please communicate this to the two Houses of Congress.

To Winfield Scott and Others
Gentlemen: March 1, 1865
I have received your address on the part of the Bureau for the employment of disabled and discharged soldiers which has recently been established in connection with the Protective War Claim Association of the Sanitary Commission. It gives me pleasure to assure you of my hearty concurrence with the purposes you announce, and I shall at all times be ready to recognize the paramount claims of the soldiers of the nation, in the disposition of public trusts. I shall be glad also to make these suggestions to the several Heads of Departments. I am very truly Your Obt. Servt A. LINCOLN Lt. Gen Winfield Scott Presdt Howard Potter W E Dodge Jr Theodore Roosevelt

To Schuyler Colfax
Executive Mansion. Sir: Washington D.C. March 2d. 1865.
I transmit herewith the report of the Secretary of War, which with my permission has been delayed until the present time to enable the Lieutenant General to furnish his report. Hon. Schuyler Colfax, ABRAHAM LINCOLN Speaker House of Representatives.

To Samuel S. Cox

Will see Hon. S. S. Cox at 9 A.M. tomorrow, if he pleases to call. March 2. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To James B. Fry

These two of my men---Crook & Alexander are drafted & I can not spare them. P.M.G. please fix. A. LINCOLN March 2. 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City Point, Va. Washington, D.C., March 2 1865
You have not sent contents of Richmond papers for Tuesday or Wednesday. Did you not receive them? If not, does it indicate anything? A. LINCOLN

To Hannibal Hamlin
Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington D.C. March 2d. 1865
I transmit herewith the report of the Secretary of War, which, with my permission, has been delayed until the present time to enable the Lieutenant General to furnish his report. Hon. Hannibal Hamlin ABRAHAM LINCOLN President of the Senate.

To Joseph Holt

I do not see sufficient reasons in this case to interfere with the action of the Department. A. LINCOLN Mar. 2, 1865.

To Edwin M. Stanton

James M. Scovel, being a member of the New-Jersey Senate, now in session, if drafted, let him be discharged from the draft. March 2. 1865. A. LINCOLN

Cotton Permit for Charles E. Fuller
Executive Mansion March 3. 1865.
An authorized agent of the Treasury Department, having with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury contracted for the Cotton above mentioned and the party having agreed to sell and deliver the same to such agent: It is ordered that the cotton moving in compliance with and for fulfilment of said contract, and being transported to said agent, or under his direction, shall be free from seizure or detention by any officer of the Government, and commandants of military departments, districts ports and detachments, naval stations, gunboats flotillas and fleets will observe this order, and give the said Charles E. Fuller his agents and transports, free and unmolested passage for the purpose of getting the said Cotton, or any part thereof through the lines, other than blockaded lines, and safe conduct within our lines while the same is moving in strict compliance with the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury and for fulfilment of said contract with the agent of the Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To William Dennison

Post-Master-General please see Mrs. Ellis, & file her papers which are within. A. LINCOLN March 3. 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
Lieutenant General Grant March 3. 1865
The President directs me to say to you that he wishes you to have no conference with General Lee unless it be for the capitulation of Gen. Lee's army, or on some minor, and purely, military matter. He instructs me to say that you are not to decide, discuss, or confer upon any political question. Such questions the President holds in his own hands; and will submit them to no military conferences or conventions. Meantime you are to press to the utmost, your military advantages. EDWIN M STANTON Secretary of War

Response to Serenade
March 3, 1865
Sherman went in at Atlanta and came out right. He has gone in again at Savannah, and I propose three cheers for his coming out gloriously.

To the Senate and House of Representatives
March 3, 1865
To The Senate and House of Representatives: I herewith transmit to Congress a Report dated 1st. instant, with the accompanying papers, received from the Secretary of State, in compliance with the requirements of the 18th. Section of the Act entitled ``An Act to regulate the Diplomatic and Consular Systems of the United States,'' Approved August 18th. 1856. Washi[ngton, March 3, 1865] [ABRAHAM LINCOLN]

Second Inaugural Address
[Fellow Countrymen:] March 4, 1865
At this second appearing to take the oath of the presidential office, there is less occasion for an extended address than there was at the first. Then a statement, somewhat in detail, of a course to be pursued, seemed fitting and proper. Now, at the expiration of four years, during which public declarations have been constantly called forth on every point and phase of the great contest which still absorbs the attention, and engrosses the enerergies [ sic ] of the nation, little that is new could be presented. The progress of our arms, upon which all else chiefly depends, is as well known to the public as to myself; and it is, I trust, reasonably satisfactory and encouraging to all. With high hope for the future, no prediction in regard to it is ventured. On the occasion corresponding to this four years ago, all thoughts were anxiously directed to an impending civil-war. All dreaded it---all sought to avert it. While the inaugeral address was being delivered from this place, devoted altogether to saving the Union without war, insurgent agents were in the city seeking to destroy it without war---seeking to dissol[v]e the Union, and divide effects, by negotiation. Both parties deprecated war; but one of them would make war rather than let the nation survive; and the other would accept war rather than let it perish. And the war came. One eighth of the whole population were colored slaves, not distributed generally over the Union, but localized in the Southern part  of it. These slaves constituted a peculiar and powerful interest. All knew that this interest was, somehow, the cause of the war. To strengthen, perpetuate, and extend this interest was the object for which the insurgents would rend the Union, even by war; while the government claimed no right to do more than to restrict the territorial enlargement of it. Neither party expected for the war, the magnitude, or the duration, which it has already attained. Neither anticipated that the cause of the conflict might cease with, or even before, the conflict itself should cease. Each looked for an easier triumph, and a result less fundamental and astounding. Both read the same Bible, and pray to the same God; and each invokes His aid against the other. It may seem strange that any men should dare to ask a just God's assistance in wringing their bread from the sweat of other men's faces; but let us judge not that we be not judged. The prayers of both could not be answered; that of neither has been answered fully. The Almighty has His own purposes. ``Woe unto the world because of offences! for it must needs be that offences come; but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh!'' If we shall suppose that American Slavery is one of those offences which, in the providence of God, must needs come, but which, having continued through His appointed time, He now wills to remove, and that He gives to both North and South, this terrible war, as the woe due to those by whom the offence came, shall we discern therein any departure from those divine attributes which the believers in a Living God always ascribe to Him? Fondly do we hope---fervently do we pray---that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet, if God wills that it continue, until all the wealth piled by the bond-man's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash, shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three  thousand years ago, so still it must be said ``the judgments of the Lord, are true and righteous altogether.'' With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan---to do all which may achieve and cherish a just, and a lasting peace, among ourselves, and with all nations.  [Endorsement] Original manuscript of second Inaugeral presented to Major John Hay. A. LINCOLN April 10. 1865

To Schuyler Colfax
Mr. Speaker Colfax Executive Mansion My dear Sir. Washington, March 5. 1865.
I should be pleased for you to accompany us to-morrow evening at ten o'clock, on a visit of half an hour to the Inaugeral-ball. I inclose a ticket. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Please file as a West-Point application. A. LINCOLN Mar. 5, 1865.

To Charles Sumner
Hon. C. Sumner. Executive Mansion My dear Sir Washington, March 5/65
I should be pleased for you to accompany us to-morrow evening at ten o'clock, on a visit of half an hour to the Inaugeral-ball. I inclose a ticket. Our carriage will call for you at half past nine. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Amos C. and William Babcock
Executive Mansion March 6. 1865.
Whereas, Amos C. Babcock and William Babcock of Fulton County, Illinois, claim to own or control Products of the insurrectionary States in Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Arkansas, and have arrangements with parties in the insurrectionary States by which they will be able to bring such Products within the national military lines and sell and deliver the same to agents authorised to purchase for the United States under the Act of Congress of July 2. 1865 and the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury It is ordered, that all such Products which an authorised agent of the Government has agreed to purchase and the said Amos C and William Babcock have stipulated to deliver as shown by the certificate of said agent issued under Regulation VIII. (Form No. 1 of Regulations) attached hereto by such agent, and being transported or in store awaiting transportation for fulfillment of said stipulation and in pursuance of the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be free from detention seizure or forfeiture to the United States; and officers of the Army and Navy and civil officers of the Government will observe this order, and will give the said Amos C. and William Babcock their agents and means of transportation and said Products, free and unmolested passage through the lines other than blockaded lines, and safe conduct within the lines, while going for or returning with said Products, or while said Products are in store awaiting transportation for the purposes aforesaid. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order Concerning Lion and Frank Silverman
Executive Mansion March 6. 1865
Whereas, Lion Silverman and Frank Silverman claim to own or control Products of the insurrectionary states on and near White River in Arkansas and the Yazoo River in Mississippi, which they propose to sell and deliver to Agents authorised to purchase the same for the United States under the Act of Congress of July 2, 1864 and the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury; It is ordered, that all such Products which a Purchasing Agent of the Government has agreed to purchase and the said Lion and Frank Silverman have stipulated to deliver as shown by the certificate of the Purchasing Agent authorised by Regulation VIII. (Form No. 1. appended to Regulations) attached hereto by such agent, and being transported or in store awaiting transportation for fulfillment of said stipulations and in pursuance of the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury shall be free from seizure detention or forfeiture to the United States; and officers of the Army and Navy and Civil officers of the Government, will observe this order, and will give the said Lion and Frank Silverman their agents and means of transportation and said Products free and unmolested passage through the lines, other than blockaded lines, and safe conduct within the lines, while going for or returning with said Products, or while said Products are in store awaiting transportation for the purposes aforesaid. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order Concerning Samuel P. Walker
Executive Mansion March 6. 1865
Whereas, Samuel P. Walker of Memphis, Tenn. claims to own Products of the insurrectionary states near Grenada and Canton Miss; and Montgomery and Selma Alabama, and has arrangements with parties in the same vicinities for other Product[s] of the insurrectionary states all which he proposes to sell and deliver to Agents authorised to purchase for the United States the Products of the insurrectionary states under the Act of Congress of July 2, 1864 and the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury; It is ordered, that all such Products which a Purchasing Agent of the Government has agreed to purchase and the said Walker has stipulated to deliver, as shown by the certificate of the Purchasing Agent authorised by Regulation VIII. (Form No. 1. appended to Regulations) attached hereto by such Agent, and being transported or in store awaiting transportation for fulfillment of said stipulations and in pursuance of the Regulations of the secretary of the Treasury, shall be free from seizure detention or forfeiture to the United States; and officers of the Army and Navy and civil officers of the Government will observe this Order, and will give the said Walker his agents and means of transportation and said Products, free and unmolested passage through the lines, other than blockaded lines, and safe conduct within the lines, while going for or returning with said Products, or while said Products are in store awaiting transportation for the purposes aforesaid. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Hanson A. Risley

Will Mr. Risley please see & hear the bearer, Hon. John T. Stuart. March 6. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, March 6. 1865.
I have some wish that Thomas D. Jones, of Cincinnati, and John J. Piatt, now in this city, should have some of those moderate sized consulates which facilitate artists a little [in] their profession. Please watch for chances. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Charles Sumner
Dear Mr. Sumner:--- March 6, 1865
Unless you send me word to the contrary, I shall this evening call with my carriage at your house, to take you with me to the Inauguration Ball. Sincerely Yours, ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To David Tod
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Hon. David Tod War Department, Cleveland, O. Washington, D.C., March 6. 1865
I have yours about Grannis, and am compelled to say there is a complication in the way. A. LINCOLN

EndorsementConcerning Charles C. Coffenberry
[c. March 7, 1865]
At end of term.

Endorsement Concerning M. R. Dutton
[c. March 7, 1865]
This application assumes that the incumbent is wholly incompetent. A.L.

Endorsement Concerning Alexander Low
[c. March 7, 1865]
This on idea that incumbent is to go out at end of four years.

Endorsement Concerning F. W. Potter
[c. March 7, 1865]
This application made on the idea that the present incumbent is to go out at the end of four years from his appointment. AL.

Endorsement Concerning Phillip C. Schuyler
[c. March 7, 1865]
Kansas folks for removal---but Mr. Dole opposed. A.L. Incumbent is brother-in-law to Gov. Morton & this morning Sec. of Interior brings a reappointment commission.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lieutenant General Grant: March 7, 1865.
In accordance with a Joint Resolution of Congress, approved December 17, 1863, I now have the honor of transmitting, and presenting to you, in the name of the People of the United States of America, a copy of said resolution, engrossed on parchment, together with the gold medal therein ordered and directed. Please accept, for yourself and all under your command, the renewed expression of my gratitude for your and their arduous and well-performed public service. Your Obt. Servt. A LINCOLN

Order Concerning James Andrews
Executive Mansion, March 7th 1865.
Whereas, James Andrews, of Pittsburgh Pennsylvania, claims to own or control products of the insurrectionary States, and to have arrangements whereby he will be able to bring such products within the national military lines, and sell and deliver them to Agents authorized to purchase for the United States, under the Act of Congress of July 2nd 1864 and the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury. It is ordered, that all such products which an authorized Agent of the Government shall have agreed to purchase and the said Andrews shall have stipulated to deliver as shown by certificate of the Agent prescribed by Regulation VIII (Form No 1. Regulations) attached hereto by such Agent and being transported or in store awaiting transportation in fulfillment of said stipulations and in pursuance of Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury shall be free from seizure detention or forfeiture to the United States and Officers of the Army and Navy and civil Officers of the Government will observe this order and will give the said Andrews and his Agents and means of transportation and said products free and unmolested passage through the lines, other than blockaded lines, and safe-conduct within the lines, while going for or returning with said products or while the said products are in store awaiting transportation for the purposes aforesaid. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order Concerning Mrs. Charlotte Hough
Executive Mansion, March 7th. 1865.
Whereas, Mrs. Charlotte Hough of New York claims to own or control products of the insurrectionary States and to have arrangements whereby she will be able to bring such products within the National military lines and sell and deliver them to Agents authorized to purchase for the United States under the Act of Congress of July 2nd 1864, and the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury It is ordered, that all such products which an authorized Agent of the Government shall have agreed to purchase and the said Charlotte Hough shall have stipulated to deliver as shown by Certificate of the Agent prescribed by Regulation VIII (Form No 1. Regulations) attached hereto by such Agent and being transported or in store awaiting transportation in fulfillment of said stipulations and in pursuance of said Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be free from seizure detention or forfeiture to the United States; and Officers of the Army and Navy and civil Officers of the Government will observe this order and will give the said Charlotte Hough and her Agents means of transportation and said products free and unmolested passage through the lines, other than blockaded lines, and safe conduct within the lines, while going for or returning with said products or while the said products are in store awaiting transportation for the purposes aforesaid. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order Concerning Samuel H. Jones and John Talbot
Executive Mansion, March 7th 1865.
Whereas, Samuel H. Jones and John Talbot of Missouri , claim to own or control products of the insurrectionary States and to have arrangements whereby they will be able to bring such products within the National Military lines and sell and deliver them to Agents authorized to purchase for the United States under the Act of Congress of July 2nd. 1864, and the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury , It is ordered , that all such products which an authorized Agent of the Government shall have agreed to purchase and the said Jones and Talbot shall have stipulated to deliver as shown by the certificate of the Agent prescribed by Regulation VIII, (Form No 1. Regulations) attached hereto by such Agent or being transported or in store awaiting transportation in fulfillment of said stipulations and in pursuance of Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury , shall be free from seizure detention or forfeiture to the United States and Officers of the Army and Navy and civil Officers of the Government will observe this order , and will give the said Jones and Talbot and their Agents and means of transportation and said products free and unmolested passage through the lines, other than blockaded lines, and safe-conduct within the lines while going for or returning with said products or while the said products are in store awaiting transportation for the purposes aforesaid. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Order Concerning Lucius H. Terry
Executive Mansion March 7. 1865
Whereas, Lucius H. Terry of St. Louis claims to own or control products of the insurrectionary states and to have arrangements whereby he will be able to bring such products within the national military lines and sell and deliver them to agents authorised to purchase for the United States under the Act of Congress of July 2, 1864 and the Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, It is Ordered, that all such products which an authorised agent of the Government shall have agreed to purchase and the said Terry shall have stipulated to deliver as shown by certificate of the agent prescribed by Regulation VIII. (Form No. 1. Regulations) attached hereto by such agent, and being transported or in store awaiting transportation for fulfillment of said stipulations and in pursuance of Regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury shall be free from seizure detention or forfeiture to the United States; and officers of the Army and Navy and civil officers of the Government will observe this order, and will give the said Terry and his agents and means of transportation and said products free and unmolested passage through the lines other than blockaded lines and safe conduct within the lines, while going for or returning with said products, or while said products are in store awaiting transportation for the purposes aforesaid. ABRAHAM LINCOLN

Pass for Judge Dixon
March 7, 1865
Allow the bearer, Judge Dixon to pass to the Officer in Command at Nashville, Tenn. to whom the Judge is commended, as worthy of reasonable facilities for passing about Kentucky & Tennessee. March 7, 1865 A. LINCOLN

To John Pope
Major Genl. Pope Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, March 7, 1865.
Please state briefly by telegraph what you concluded about the assessments in St. Louis county. Early in the war one Samuel B. Churchill was sent from St. Louis to Louisville, where I have quite satisfactory evidence that he has not misbehaved. Still, I am told his property at St. Louis is subjected to this assessment, which I think it ought not to be. Still, I wish to know what you think. A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
Private Executive Mansion, To the Honorable Washington, The Secretary of the Navy 7 March, 1865.
M. de Mareil who bears this, is the Editor of the Messager-Franco-Americain, a French Newspaper published in the City of New York, which has sustained the Union cause during this war with great ability and energy. I hope that any advertising which can be legally and appropriately given to a journal of this class, may be given to M. Mareil. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Daniel J. Pinckney

A good case. A. LINCOLN March. 8. 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., March 8. 1865
Your two despatches to the Secretary of War---one relating to supplies for the enemy going by the Blackwater, and the other to Gen. Singleton and Judge Hughes---have been laid before me by him. As to Singleton and Hughes, I think they are not in Richmond by any authority, unless it be from you. I remember nothing from me which could aid them in getting there except a letter to you as follows, towit: ``Lieut. Genl. Grant Executive Mansion City-Point, Va. Washington City Feb. 7. 1865 Gen. Singleton who bears you this, claims that, he already has arrangements made, if you consent, to bring a large amount of Southern produce through your lines. For it's bearing on our finances, I would be glad for this to be done, if it can be, without injuriously disturbing your military operations, or supplying the enemy. I wish you to be judge and master on these points. Please see and hear him fully; and decide whether anything & if anything, what can be done in the premises. Yours truly A. LINCOLN.[''] I believe I gave Hughes a card putting him with Singleton, on the same letter. However this may be I now authorize you to get Singleton and Hughes away from Richmond, if you choose, and can. I also authorize you, by an order, or in what form you choose, to suspend all operations on the Treasury-trade-permits, in all places South Eastward of the Alleghenies. If you make such order, notify me of it, giving a copy, so that I can give corresponding direction to the Navy. A LINCOLN

To George Harrington
Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington, March 8, 1865.
Please detail a good clerk from your Department, to report to my Private Secretary for temporary duty in the Executive Office. Yours truly A. LINCOLN George Harrington Esq Secretary of the Treasury ad interim .

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States: March 8, 1865
The 4th section of the law of 16 January, 1857, provides that reserved officers may be promoted on the reserved list, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and under this authority various officers of the navy have been promoted one grade from time to time. I therefore nominate Commander John J. Young, now on the reserved list, to be a captain in the Navy on the reserved list, from the 12th August, 1854, the date when he was entitled to his regular promotion had he not been overslaughed. It is due to this officer to state that he was passed over in consequence of physical disability, this disability having occurred in the discharge of his duties; and prior to his misfortune he bore the reputation of an efficient and correct officer, and subsequently has evinced a willingness to perform whatever duties were assigned him. Washington, D.C., 8 March, 1865. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

To the Senate
To the Senate of the United States March 8, 1865
In answer to the Senate's Resolution of the 6th. instant requesting the return of a certain Joint Resolution, I transmit a Report from the Secretary of State ABRAHAM LINCOLN Washington 8th. March, 1865.

To William O. Bartlett
W. O. Bartlett, Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Philadelphia War Department, Washington, D.C., (Probably at Continental) March 9 1865
It will soon be too late, if you are not here. A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Hayden De Lany

Let this case be filed & considered when this subject shall be acted upon. A. LINCOLN March 9. 1865.

Endorsement Concerning John C. Grannis
March 9, 1865
This came to me March 9. 1865 at  past 3. PM. & after, nomination for Dist. Atty had been made A L

Endorsement Concerning John P. Usher

Accepted to take effect, May 15th. 1865 A. LINCOLN March 9. 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., March 9. 1865
I see your despatch to the Sec. of War, objecting to rebel prisoners being allowed to take the oath and go free. Supposing that I am responsible for what is done in this way, I think fit to say that there is no general rule, or action, allowing prisoners to be discharged merely on taking the oath. What has been done is that Members of Congress come to me from time to time with lists of names alleging that from personal knowledge, and evidence of reliable persons they are satisfied that it is safe to discharge the particular persons named on the lists, and I have ordered their discharge. These Members are chiefly from the border states; and those they get discharged are their neighbors and neighbors sons. They tell me that they do not bring to me one tenth of the names which are brought to them, bringing only such as their knowledge or the proof satisfies them about. I have, on the same principle, discharged some on the representations of others than Members of Congress, as, for instance, Gov. Johnson of Tennessee. The number I have discharged has been rather larger than I liked ---reaching I should think an average of fifty a day, since the recent general exchange commenced. On the same grounds, last year, I discharged quite a number at different times, aggregating perhaps a thousand, Missourians and Kentuckians; and their Members returning here since the prisoner's return to their homes, report to me only two cases of proving false. Doubtless some more have proved false; but, on the whole I believe what I have done in this way has done good rather than harm. A. LINCOLN

MemorandumConcerning Maryland Appointments
March 9, 1865
To-day Gov. Swann, Mayor Chapman, & Hon Mr. Webster personally complain of me about my action in regard to the offices in Maryland. 1. Blumenberg. 2. Sands---Collector of 5 Dist. 3. Ridgeley---this, not objected to. 4. Stuart. this objected.---removal of Thompson. Changes made in Custom-House with a view of economy---15 dropped---12 my friends---on whose designation dropped.

To James Speed

Send me a nomination for Caspar E. Yost, of Nebraska---to fill the vacancy caused by this resignation. A. LINCOLN March 9. 1865

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, March 9, 1865.
I have long thought that Col. Lewis B. Parsons of the Quarter-Master's Department, ought to be promoted; and this impression has been deepened by his great success in the recent matter of transporting troops from the West to the East. Is there any legal obstacle in the way? If not, let the promotion be made at once. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Offering Pardon to Deserters
March 11, 1865
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, the twenty-first section of the act of Congress approved on the third instant, entitled ``An act to amend the several acts heretofore passed to provide for the enrolling and calling out the national forces and for other purposes,'' requires, ``that in addition to the other lawful penalties of the crime of desertion from the military or naval service, all persons who have deserted the military or naval service of the United States who shall not return to said service, or report themselves to a Provost Marshal within sixty days after the proclamation hereinafter mentioned shall be deemed and taken to have voluntarily relinquished and forfeited their rights of citizenship, and their rights to become citizens, and such deserters shall be forever incapable of holding any office of trust or profit under the United States, or of exercising any rights of citizens thereof, and all persons who shall hereafter desert the military or naval service, and all persons who, being duly enrolled, shall depart the jurisdiction of the district in which he is enrolled, or go beyond the limits of the United States with intent to avoid any draft into the military or naval service, duly ordered, shall be liable to the penalties of this Section. And the President is hereby authorized and required, forthwith on the passage of this Act, to issue his proclamation setting forth the provisions of this Section, in which proclamation the President is requested to notify all deserters returning within sixty days, as aforesaid that they shall be pardoned on condition of returning to their regiments and companies or to such other organizations as they may be assigned to, until they shall have served for a period of time equal to their original term of enlistment:'' Now, therefore, be it known that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do issue this my Proclamation, as required by said act, ordering and requiring all deserters to return to their proper posts, and I do hereby notify them that all deserters, who shall, within sixty days from the date of this proclamation, viz: on or before the tenth day of May 1865, return to service or report themselves to a Provost Marshal, shall be pardoned, on condition that they return to their regiments and companies, or to such other organizations as they may be assigned to, and serve the remainder of their original terms of enlistment, and, in addition thereto, a period equal to the time lost by desertion. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this eleventh day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H SEWARD Secretary of State.

To the Senate
March 11, 1865
I withdraw the nomination of [Hugh M.] Herrick, as Assessor of Internal Revenue for the 9th. Collection District of New-York, in place of Homer Franklin; and substitute therefor a nomination of said Herrick for said office, to take effect March 20th. 1865.

To Edwin M. Stanton

I shall be glad if the Secretary of War will allow this gentleman,---Wm. Van Dalsan---a pass to go to Wilmington N.C. March 11. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Henry T. Blow
Hon. Henry T. Blow Washington, St. Louis Mo. March 13. 1865
A Miss. E. Snodgrass, who was banished from St. Louis in May 1863, wishes to take the oath and return home. What say you? A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning General Ames

If there be no legal obstacle, let the recommendation of Gen. Ames be carried into effect. A. LINCOLN Mar. 13, 1865

To John Z. Goodrich
Hon. John Z. Goodrich Executive Mension, My dear Sir: Washington, March 13. 1865.
Your official term expires about this time. I know not whether you desire a re-appointment; and I am not aware of any objection to you personal, political, or official. Yet if it be true, as I have been informed, that the office is of no pecuniary consequence to you, it would be quite a relief to me to have it at my disposal. Yours truly A LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion Lieut. Gen'l Grant. March 13, 1865.
I think it will tend to remove some injurious misunderstanding for you to have another interview with Judge Hughes. I do not wish to modify anything I have heretofore said, as to you having entire control whether anything in the way of trade shall pass either way through your lines. I do say, however, that having known Judge Hughes intimately during the whole of the rebellion, I do not believe he would knowingly betray any interest of the country and attempt to deceive you in the slightest degree. Please see him again. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

To Joseph Holt
[c. March 13, 1865]
Although this is an old case I do not perceive that the Judge Advocate General has reported on it. Will he please report on the evidence, fully, as to the 3rd. Charge and Specification, which seems to me to be the controlling one? A. LINCOLN

Endorsement Concerning Thomas B. Lincoln

Sent me by the Sec. of State to procure a pass South, which I gave. A. LINCOLN March. 15. 1865.

To Hugh McCulloch

I shall be glad if S. James Johnson, the bearer, could get a little promotion. A. LINCOLN March. 15. 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant

Lieutenant Gen: Grant Please allow the bearer, Robert E. Coxe, to pass through our lines to go South and return A. LINCOLN March 15. 1865

Pass for Thomas B. Lincoln

Allow the bearer, Thomas B. Lincoln, with ordinary baggage, to pass our lines and go South. A. LINCOLN March 15. 1865

Reply to Count Wydenbruck
March 15, 1865
COUNT WYDENBRUCK: I sincerely hope that you may find your residence in our country an agreeable one. During a period in which our relations with several of the foreign powers have been a subject of especial care, if not of anxiety, the friendly intercourse between your great country and ours has been free not only from disturbance, but even from every form of irritation or annoyance. Your sovereign has been discreet, frank, and friendly, and has thus won the confidence and good will of the American people.

To James Speed
Executive Mansion, Hon. Attorney General Washington, March 15, 1865.
Appoint Judge Caleb Baldwin of Iowa to be District Attorney for the District of Iowa. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher
[c. March 15, 1865]
Let these appointments be made as agreed on by Senators Pomeroy & Lane. A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher

Let this appointment, being to fill a vacancy, be made. March. 15. 1865. A. LINCOLN

To Thurlow Weed
Thurlow Weed, Esq Executive Mansion, My dear Sir. Washington, March 15, 1865.
Every one likes a compliment. Thank you for yours on my little notification speech, and on the recent Inaugeral Address. I expect the latter to wear as well as---perhaps better than---any thing I have produced; but I believe it is not immediately popular. Men are not flattered by being shown that there has been a difference of purpose between the Almighty and them. To deny it, however, in this case, is to deny that there is a God governing the world. It is a truth which I thought needed to be told; and as whatever of humiliation there is in it, falls most directly on myself, I thought others might afford for me to tell it. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To John Evans
Executive Mansion, Gov. Evans. Washington, March 16. 1865.
As you are Governor of the Territory of Colorado, and Hon. J. M. Ashley, of Ohio is, and probably will again be, Chairman of the Committee on Territories, of the H.R. there is no objection to your corresponding with him about territorial matters. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Judge Advocate General please report upon this case. Mar. 16, 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Edward O. C. Ord
Executive Mansion Major General Ord. Washington, March 16, 1865
Suspend execution of Lieut. Henry A. Meck, of 1st. U.S. Colored Cavalry until further order from here. Answer A. LINCOLN

To Lorenzo Thomas
March 16, 1865
Let this man Lester take the oath and give bond as suggested by the Judge Advocate General upon doing which he is fully pardoned and the money taken from him or from his wife to be refunded. Mar. 16. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher

Appoint according to within. A. LINCOLN March 16. 1865

To John P. Usher

Hold on till Senators return. A L. March 16. 1865

To John P. Usher

Appoint according to within. A. LINCOLN March 16. 1865

To John P. Usher

Let this appointment be made. A. LINCOLN March 16. 1865.

To John P. Usher

Appoint according to within. A. LINCOLN March 16. 1865

To John P. Usher

Appoint Owen Wade, of Oregon, to fill this vacancy. March. 16. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Rosell M. Hough and Others
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Col. R. M. Hough & others War Department, Chicago, Illinois Washington, D.C., March 17 1865
Yours received. The best I can do with it is to refer it to the War Department. The Rock-Island case referred to, was my individual enterprize; and it caused so much difficulty in so many ways that I promised to never undertake another. A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Concerning Trade with Indians
March 17, 1865
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, reliable information has been received that hostile Indians within the limits of the United States have been furnished with arms and munitions of war by persons dwelling in conterminous foreign territory, and are thereby enabled to prosecute their savage warfare upon the exposed and sparse settlements of the frontier. Now, therefore, be it known that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim and direct that all persons detected in that nefarious traffic, shall be arrested and tried by Court Martial at the nearest military post, and, if convicted, shall receive the punishment due to their deserts. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington this seventeenth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H SEWARD Secretary of State.

To William H. Seward

Submitted to Sec. of State to be considered, if & when vacancy occurs. A. LINCOLN March 17. 1865

Speech to One Hundred Fortieth Indiana Regiment
March 17, 1865
[Autograph Draft] FELLOW CITIZENS. A few words only. I was born in Kentucky, raised in Indiana, reside in Illinois, and now here, it is my duty to care equally for the good people of all the States. I am to-day glad of seeing it in the power of an Indianana regiment to present this captured flag to the good governor of their State. And yet I would not wish to compliment Indiana above other states, remembering that all have done so well. There are but few aspects of this great war on which I have not already expressed my views by speaking or writing. There is one---the recent effort of our erring bretheren, sometimes so-called, to employ the slaves in their armies. The great question with them has been; ``will the negro fight for them?'' They ought to know better than we; and, doubtless, do know better than we. I may incidentally remark, however, that having, in my life, heard many arguments,---or strings of words meant to pass for arguments,---intended to show that the negro ought to be a slave, that if he shall now really fight to keep himself a slave, it will be a far better argument why [he] should remain a slave than I have ever before heard. He, perhaps, ought to be a slave, if he desires it ardently enough to fight for it. Or, if one out of four will, for his own freedom, fight to keep the other three in slavery, he ought to be a slave for his selfish meanness. I have always thought that all men should be free; but if any should be slaves it should be first those who desire it for themselves , and secondly those who desire it for others . Whenever [I] hear any one,  arguing for slavery I feel a strong impulse to see it tried on him personally. There is one thing about the negroes fighting for the rebels which we can know as well [as] they can; and that is that they can not, at [the] same time fight in their armies, and stay at home and make bread for them. And this being known and remembered we can have but little concern whether they become soldiers or not. I am rather in favor of the measure; and would at any time if I could, have loaned them a vote to carry it. We have to reach the bottom of the insurgent resources; and that they employ, or seriously think of employing, the slaves as soldiers, gives us glimpses of the bottom. Therefore I am glad of what we learn on this subject. [Newspaper Version] FELLOW CITIZENS---It will be but a very few words that I shall undertake to say. I was born in Kentucky, raised in Indiana and lived in Illinois. (Laughter.) And now I am here, where it is my business to care equally for the good people of all the States. I am glad to see an Indiana regiment on this day able to present the captured flag to the Governor of Indiana. (Applause.) I am not disposed, in saying this, to make a distinction between the States, for all have done equally well. (Applause.) There are but few views or aspects of this great war upon which I have not said or written something whereby my own opinions might be known. But there is one---the recent attempt of our erring brethren, as they are sometimes called---(laughter)---to employ the negro to fight for them. I have neither written nor made a speech on that subject, because that was their business, not mine; and if I had a wish upon the subject I had not the power to introduce it, or make it effective. The great question with them was, whether the negro, being put into the army, would fight for them. I do not know, and therefore cannot decide. (Laughter.) They ought to know better than we. I have in my lifetime heard many arguments why the negroes ought to be slaves; but if they fight for those who would keep them in slavery it will be a better argument than any I have yet heard. (Laughter and applause.) He who will fight for that ought to be a slave. (Applause.) They have concluded at last to take one out of four of the slaves, and put them in the army; and that one out of the four who will fight to keep the others in slavery ought to be a slave himself unless he is killed in a fight. (Applause.) While I have often said that all men ought to be free, yet I would allow those colored persons to be slaves who want to be; and next to them those white persons who argue in favor of making other people slaves. (Applause.) I am in favor of giving an opportunity to such white men to try it on for themselves. (Applause.) I will say one thing in regard to the negro being employed to fight for them. I do know he cannot fight and stay at home and make bread too---(laughter and applause)---and as one is about as important as the other to them, I don't care which they do. (Renewed applause.) I am rather in favor of  having them try them as soldiers. (Applause.) They lack one vote of doing that, and I wish I could send my vote over the river so that I might cast it in favor of allowing the negro to fight. (Applause.) But they cannot fight and work both. We must now see the bottom of the enemy's resources. They will stand out as long as they can, and if the negro will fight for them, they must allow him to fight. They have drawn upon their last branch of resources. (Applause.) And we can now see the bottom. (Applause.) I am glad to see the end so near at hand. (Applause.) I have said now more than I intended, and will therefore bid you goodby.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Secretary of War. Executive Mansion, Dear Sir: Washington D C Mch 17th. 1865
I have long thought Col. Lewis B. Parsons ought to be promoted, and intended it should have been sooner done. His long service and the uniform testimony to the ability with which he has discharged his very responsible and extended duties render it but just and proper his services should be acknowledged, and more especially so since his great success in executing your orders for the recent movement of Troops from the West. You will therefore at once promote Col. Parsons to the rank of a Brigadier General, if there is a vacancy which can be given to the Quarter-Master's Department,  and if not, you will so promote him when the first vacancy occurs. Yours Truly A. LINCOLN

To John P. Usher

Let the appointment be made. A. LINCOLN March 17. 1865.

To Edward R. S. Canby
March 18, 1865
Gen. Canby is authorized, but not ordered, to give Rev. Mr. Teasdale such facilities in the within matters, as he, in his discretion, may see fit. A. LINCOLN. March 18, 1865.

Endorsement Concerning Charles T. Dorsett
March 18, 1865
Mr. Dorset, the father, says he already has two substitutes in the army, that he yet has three unmarried sons subject to draft, who will not shrink, and that he has still another son a prisoner among the rebels. He asks that this married son, now drafted, may be discharged. Let it be done. A. LINCOLN March 18, 1865

Order Annulling Sentence of Benjamin G. and Franklin W. Smith
March 18, 1865
I am unwilling for the sentence to stand and be executed, to any extent in this case. In the absence of a more adequate motive than the evidence discloses, I am wholly unable to believe in the existence of criminal or fraudulent intent on the part of one of such well established good character as is the accused. If the evidence went as far toward establishing a guilty profit of one or two hundred thousand dollars, as it does of one or two hundred dollars, the case would, on the question of guilt, bear a far different aspect. That on this contract, involving from one million to twelve hundred thousand dollars, the contractors should attempt a fraud which at the most could profit them only one or two hundred, or even one thousand dollars, is to my mind beyond the power of rational belief. That they did not, in such a case, strike for greater gains proves that they did not, with guilty, or fraudulent intent, strike at all. The judgment and sentence are disapproved, and declared null, and the accused ordered to be discharged. March 18. 1865 A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning George Burr

At the request of Hon. Mr. Hotchkiss & upon his representation the order of dismissal in this case is revoked A. LINCOLN March 18. 1865.

Pass for Thomas C. Teasdale

Pass the Rev. Thomas Teasdale through our lines going South, with convenient baggage. A. LINCOLN March 18, 1865

To John Pope
Major General Pope Executive Mansion, St. Louis, Mo. Washington, March 19, 1865
Understanding that the plan of action for Missouri, contained in your letter to the Governor of that State, and your other letter to me, is concurred in by the Governor, it is approved by me, and you will be sustained in proceeding upon it. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War, please, see & hear Hon. H. P. H. Bromwell, one of our new Union M.Cs from Illinois. A. LINCOLN March 19, 1865

Endorsement Concerning Nathaniel P. Banks

Gen. Banks remained in Washington from some time last autumn, until this date by my consent and direction. A. LINCOLN March 20, 1865

Endorsement Concerning William D. Briggs

March 20, 1865 This boy is pardoned for any desertion from the land service heretofore committed upon condition of faithfully serving out his term in the Naval service. A. LINCOLN March 20, 1865

To Ulysses S. Grant
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Lieut. Genl. Grant War Department, City-Point, Va. Washington, D.C., March 20, 1865
Your kind invitation received. Had already thought of going immediately after the next rain. Will go sooner if any reason for it. Mrs. L. and a few others will probably accompany me. Will notify you of exact time, once it shall be fixed upon. A. LINCOLN

To Mrs. Amanda H. Hall
Mrs. Amanda H. Hall Executive Mansion, Madam Washington, March 20. 1865.
Induced by a letter of yours to your brother, and shown me by him, I send you what follows below. Respectfully A. LINCOLN ``Fondly do we hope---fervently do we pray---that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand years ago, so still it must be said: ``The judgments of the Lord are true, and righteous altogether.'' ABRAHAM LINCOLN

To Joseph Holt

Will the Judge Advocate General please procure proper record and papers & report on the case as soon as practicable? March 20. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Edward O. C. Ord
Major General Ord Executive Mansion, Army of the James. Washington, May [March] 20. 1865.
Is it true that George W. Lane is detained at Norfolk without any charge against him? And if so, why is it done? A. LINCOLN

Order Concerning Peter Lake
Executive Mansion Washington, Mar. 20, 1865
Hon. Thomas T. Davis, now present, asks that Peter Lake, now a prisoner of War at Elmira, N.Y, may be discharged on taking the oath of Dec. 8, 1863. Let it be done. A. LINCOLN

To James Speed
Executive Mansion, Hon. Attorney General Washington, March 20. 1865.
Let Hewett, Wyche & Oliphant, be reappointed as Judges in Washington Territory. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James Speed

Attorney General please report on this case, with reference to a pardon, with as little delay as possible A. LINCOLN March 20. 1865

To Thomas Swann
Gov. Swann. Executive Mansion Baltimore, Md. Washington, March 20. 1865
I wish you would find Cresswell and bring him with you and see me to-morrow. A. LINCOLN

To Robert T. Lincoln
Cipher Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Capt. R. T. Lincoln War Department, City-Point, Va Washington, D.C., March 21 1865
We now think of starting to you about One P.M. Thursday. Dont make public. A. LINCOLN

Memorandum

I met my friend Benton at the door. I can do no better than I have already said. It is useless for him to importune me. March 21 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Walter B. Scates
Hon. Walter B. Scates Executive Mansion Centralia, Ills. Washington, March 21. 1865
If you choose to go to New-Mexico, and reside, I will appoint you Chief Justice there. What say you? Please answer. A. LINCOLN

To James Speed

Pardon, for unexecuted part of sentence. A. LINCOLN March 21. 1865

To John P. Usher

File . Appt. made A. L March 21, 1865

Endorsement Concerning James M. Campbell

On the representation of Vice-President Johnson, it is ordered that special pardon be made out in this case. A. LINCOLN March 22. 1865

To Winfield S. Hancock
Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major Gen. Hancock, War Department, Winchester, Va. Washington, D.C., March 22. 1865.
Seeing your despatch about Gen. Crook, and fearing that, through misapprehension, something unpleasant may occur, I send you below two despatches of Gen. Grant, which I suppose will fully explain Gen. Crook's movements. A. LINCOLN

MemorandumConcerning the Duchess of Argyll
Executive Mansion, Washington, March 22, 1865.
Senator Sumner shows me a letter from the Dutchess of Argyle, of date, March 2. 1865, from which I extract the following. ``I do not know what your opinion is as to giving the Franchise to the negroes of the Slave States. One wd. be inclined to think that that [ sic ] there ought to be some realization first of their new condition. We feel great confidence in the President. It is sad to hear of the Abolition party so much divided since his nomination Has Goldwin Smith made you understand more than you did, the mist before the eyes of Englishmen? I like his Article in McMillan on the Prest. and think the speech at the Gettysburg Cemetery must live.'' A. LINCOLN

To Grenville M. Dodge
Executive Mansion, Washington, Mch 23. 1865.
Allow Mrs. R S Ewell the benefit of my amnesty proclamation on her taking the oath A. LINCOLN Genl Dodge Comg &c St Louis Mo

To Ulysses S. Grant
Cipher Executive Mansion, Lieut. Gen. Grant Washington, City-Point, Va. March 23, 1865
We start to you at One P.M. to-day. May lie over during the dark hours of the night. Very small party of us. A. LINCOLN

To William L. James
March 24, 1865
I am not at all impatient, and hope Major James will not reproach himself or deal harshly with the officer having the matter in charge. Doubtless he, too, has met some unexpected difficulty. March 24, 1865. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. City Point, Va. Washington, D.C. March 25, 1865. 8/30 A.M.
Arrived here, all safe about 9 A.M. yesterday. No war news. Gen. Grant does not seem to know very much about Yeatman, but thinks very well of him so far as he does know. I like Mr. Whiting very much, and hence would wish him to remain or resign as best suits himself. Hearing this much from me, do as you think best in the matter. Gen. Lee has sent the Russell letter back, concluding, as I understand from Grant, that their dignity does not admit of their receiving the document from us. Robert just now tells me there was a little rumpus up the line this morning, ending about where it began. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. Meade's Hd. Qrs. Washington D C. March 25. 1/25. 1865
I am here within five miles of the scene of this morning's action. I have nothing to add to what Gen. Meade reports, except that I have seen the prisoners myself and they look like there might be the number he states---1600. A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. City Point, Va Washington D.C March 26. 1865. 9. A.M
I approve your Fort-Sumpter programme. Grant dont seem to know Yeatman very well, but thinks very well of him so far as he knows---thinks it probable that Y. is best man for the place. I told you this yesterday, as well as that you should do as you think best about Mr. Whiting's resignation, but I suppose you did not receive the despatch. I am on the boat, and have no later war news than went to you last-night. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. City Point, Va. Washington, D.C. March 27. 1865. 3/35. PM.
Yours inclosing Fort-Sumpter order received. I think of but one suggestion. I feel quite confident that Sumpter fell on the thirteenth (13th.) and not on the fourteenth (14th.) of April as you have it. It fell on Saturday the 13th.---the first call for troops on our part was got up on Sunday the 14th. and given date, and issued on Monday the 15th. Look up the old Almanac & other data and see if I am not right. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Sec. of War. City-Point, Va Washington D.C. March 28. 1865. 12. M.
After your explanation, I think it is little or no difference whether the Fort-Sumpter ceremony takes place on the 13th. or 14th. Gen. Sherman tells me he is well acquainted with James Yeatman, & that he thinks him almost the best man in the country for anything he will undertake. A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
U.S. Military Telegraph. Gen. Grant. City Point, March 29, 1865
Your three despatches received. From what direction did the enemy come that attacked Griffin? How do things look now? A LINCOLN

To Godfrey Weitzel
U.S. Military Telegraph. Gen. Weitzel City Point, March 29 1865
What, if any thing, have you observed, on your front to-day? A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
City Point, Va., March 30, 1865-7.30 p.m.
Hon. Secretary of War: I begin to feel that I ought to be at home, and yet I dislike to leave without seeing nearer to the end of General Grant's present movement. He has now been out since yesterday morning, and although he has not been diverted from his programme, no considerable effect has yet been produced, so far as we know here. Last night at 10.15, when it was dark as a rainy night without a moon could be, a furious cannonade, soon joined in by a heavy musketry-fire, opened near Petersburg and lasted about two hours. The sound was very distinct here, as also were the flashes of the guns upon the clouds. It seemed to me a great battle, but the older hands here scarcely noticed it, and, sure enough, this morning it was found that very little had been done. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, City Point, Va., Secretary of War: March 31, 1865---8.30 p.m.
At 12.30 p.m. to-day General Grant telegraphed me as follows: There has been much hard fighting this morning. The enemy drove our left from near Dabney's house back well toward the Boydton plank road. We are now about to take the offensive at that point, and I hope will more than recover the lost ground. Later he telegraphed again as follows: Our troops, after being driven back on the Boydton plank road, turned and drove the enemy in turn and took the White Oak road, which we now have. This gives us the ground occupied by the enemy this morning. I will send you a rebel flag captured by our troops in driving the enemy back. There have been four flags captured to-day. Judging by the two points from which General Grant telegraphs, I infer that he moved his headquarters about one mile since he sent the first of the two dispatches. A. LINCOLN.

To Ulysses S. Grant
U.S. Military Telegraph. Lt Gen Grant City Point Apl 1 1865
Yours to Col Bowers about the secretary of War is shown to me. He is not here nor have I any notice that he is coming. I presume the mistake comes of the fact that the secy of state was here. He started back to Washington this morning. I have your two despatches of this morning and am anxious to hear from Sheridan A LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, City-Point, Lieut. General Grant. April 1. 5/45. P.M. 1865
Yours showing Sheridan's success of to-day is just received, & highly appreciated. Having no great deal to do here, I am still sending the substance of your despatches to the Secretary of War. A. LINCOLN

To William H. Seward
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, Hon. W. H. Seward City-Point, Fort-Monroe, Va. April 1. 5/30 [P.M.] 1865
Despatch just received, showing that Sheridan, aided by Warren, had at 2. P.M. pushed the enemy back so as to retake the five forks, and bring his own Head Quarters up to J. Boissau's. The five forks were barricaded by the enemy, and carried by Devin's  Division of Cavalry. This part of the enemy seem to now be trying to work along the White Oak Road, to join the main force in front of Grant, while Sheridan & Warren are pressing them as closely as possible. A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, Hon. Sec. of War City Point, Washington, D.C. April 1. 12/50 PM 1865.
I have had two despatches from Gen. Grant since my last to you, but they contain little additional except that Sheridan also had pretty hot work yesterday, that infantry was sent to his support during the night, and that he, Grant, has not since heard from Sheridan. Mrs. L. has started home; and I will thank you to see that our coachman is at the Arsenal wharf at Eight (8) o'clock to-morrow morning, there wait until she arrives.  A. LINCOLN

To Mary Todd Lincoln
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, Mrs. A. Lincoln, City-Point, Washington, D.C. April 2. 7/45 [A.M.] 1865
Last night Gen. Grant telegraphed that Sheridan with his Cavalry and the 5th. Corps had captured three brigades of Infantry, a train of wagons, and several batteries, prisoners amounting to several thousands. This morning Gen. Grant, having ordered an attack along the whole line telegraphs as follows ``Both Wright and Parke  got through the enemies lines. The battle now rages furiously. Sheridan with his Cavalry, the 5th. Corps, & Miles  Division of the 2nd. Corps, which was sent to him since 1. this A.M. is now sweeping down from the West. All now looks highly favorable. Ord is engaged, but I have not yet heard the result in his front'' Robert yesterday wrote a little cheerful note to Capt. Penrose, which is all I have heard of him since you left.  Copy to Secretary of War  A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, City Point, Va., Secretary of War: April 2, 1865---11 a.m.
Dispatches frequently coming in. All going finely. Parke, Wright, and Ord, extending from the Appomattox to Hatcher's Run, have all broken through the enemy's intrenched lines, taking some forts, guns, and prisoners. Sheridan, with his own cavalry, Fifth Corps, and part of the Second, is coming in from the west on the enemy's flank, and Wright is already tearing up the South Side Railroad. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, City Point, Va., Secretary of War: April 2, 1865---2 p.m.
At 10.45 a.m. General Grant telegraphed as follows: Everything has been carried from the left of the Ninth Corps. The Sixth Corps alone captured more than 3,000 prisoners. The Second and Twenty-fourth Corps both captured forts, guns, and prisoners from the enemy, but I cannot tell the number. We are now closing around the works of the line immediately enveloping Petersburg. All looks remarkably well. I have not yet heard from Sheridan. His headquarters have been moved up to T. Banks' house, near the Boydton road, about three miles southwest of Petersburg. A. LINCOLN.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, City-Point, Lieut. General Grant. April. 2. 8/15 P.M. 1865.
Allow me to tender to you, and all with you, the nations grateful thanks for this additional, and magnificent success. At your kind suggestion, I think I will visit you to-morrow. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Hon. Edwin M. Stanton, City Point, Va., Secretary of War: April 2, 1865---8.30 p.m.
At 4.30 p.m. to-day General Grant telegraphed as follows: We are now up, and have a continuous line of troops, and in a few hours will be intrenched from the Appomattox, below Petersburg, to the river above. [Henry] Heth's  and [Cadmus M.] Wilcox's divisions---such part of them as were not captured---were cut off from town, either designedly on their part or because they could not help it. Sheridan, with the cavalry and Fifth Corps, is above them. Miles' division, Second Corps, was sent from the White Oak road to Sullivan [Sutherland's]  Station, on the South Side Railroad, where he met them, and at last accounts was engaged with them. Not knowing whether Sheridan would get up in time Humphreys was sent with another division from here. The whole captures since the army started out will not amount to less than 12,000 men, and probably 50 pieces of artillery. I do not know the number of men and guns accurately, however. A portion of [Robert S.] Foster's division, Twenty-fourth Corps, made a most gallant charge this afternoon, and captured a very important fort from the enemy, with its entire garrison. All seems well with us, and everything quiet just now. A. LINCOLN.

To Mary Todd Lincoln
City Point, Va., April 2, 1865.
Mrs. Lincoln: At 4:30 p.m. to-day General Grant telegraphs that he has Petersburg completely enveloped from river below to river above, and has captured, since he started last Wednesday, about 12,000 prisoners and 50 guns. He suggests that I shall go out and see him in the morning, which I think I will do. Tad and I are both well, and will be glad to see you and your party here at the time you name. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
Head Quarters Armies of the United States. Hon. Sec. of War City-Point, Washington D.C. April 3. 8/00 A.M. 1865
This morning Gen. Grant reports Petersburg evacuated; and he is confident Richmond also is. He is pushing forward to cut off if possible, the retreating army. I start to him in a few minutes. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, Hon. Sec. of War City-Point, Washington, D.C. April 3. 5. P.M. 1865
Yours received. Thanks for your caution; but I have already been to Petersburg, staid with Gen. Grant an hour & a half and returned here. It is certain now that Richmond is in our hands, and I think I will go there to-morrow. I will take care of myself. A LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, Hon. Sec. of War. City-Point, Washington, D.C. April 4. 7/30 A.M. 1865
Weitzel telegraphs from Richmond that of Railroad stock, he found there twenty-eight (28) Locomotives, forty-four passenger & baggage cars, and two hundred and six freight cars.  At 3/20 this morning Grant, from Southerland station, ten miles from Petersburg towards Burkesvile, telegraphs as follows, towit:  A. LINCOLN ``General Sheridan picked up 1,200 prisoners to-day and from 300 to 500 more have been gathered by other troops. The majority of the arms that were left in the hands of the remnant of Lee's army are now scattered between Richmond and where his troops are. The country is also full of stragglers, the line of retreat marked with artillery, ammunition, burned or charred wagons, caissons, ambulances, &c''

To Nathaniel P. Banks
Cipher Office U. S. Military Telegraph, Maj Gen N P Banks War Department. New York City Point 7 30 pm Apl 5th 1865
Yours of today just rec'd I have been so much occupied with other thoughts that I really have no directions to give you. You may go at once and you and I will correspond, when desired by either A LINCOLN Prest

To John A. Campbell
[April 5, 1865]
As to peace, I have said before, and now repeat, that three things are indispensable. 1. The restoration of the national authority throughout all the States. 2. No receding by the Executive of the United States on the slavery question, from the position assumed thereon, in the late Annual Message to Congress, and in preceding documents. 3. No cessation of hostilities short of an end of the war, and the disbanding of all force hostile to the government. That all propositions coming from those now in hostility to the government; and not inconsistent with the foregoing, will be respectfully considered, and passed upon in a spirit of sincere liberality. I now add that it seems useless for me to be more specific with those who will not say they are ready for the indispensable terms, even on conditions to be named by themselves. If there be any who are ready for those indispensable terms, on any conditions whatever, let them say so, and state their conditions, so that such conditions can be distinctly known, and considered. It is further added that, the remission of confiscations being within the executive power, if the war be now further persisted in, by those opposing the government, the making of confiscated property at the least to bear the additional cost, will be insisted on; but that confiscations (except in cases of third party intervening interests) will be remitted to the people of any State which shall now promptly, and in good faith, withdraw it's troops and other support, from further resistance to the government. What is now said as to remission of confiscations has no reference to supposed property in slaves.

To William H. Seward
Hon. Secretary of State: City Point, Va., April 5, 1865.
Yours of to-day received. I think there is no probability of my remaining here more than two days longer. If that is too long come down. I passed last night at Richmond and have just returned. A. LINCOLN.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, Lieut. Genl. Grant City-Point, In the Field. April. 6. 12. M. 1865
Secretary Seward was thrown from his carriage yesterday and seriously injured. This, with other matters, will take me to Washington soon. I was at Richmond yesterday and the day before, when and where Judge Campbell (who was with Messrs. Hunter and Stephens in February) called on me and made such representations as induced me to put in his hands an informal paper, repeating the propositions in my letter of instructions to Mr. Seward (which you remember) and adding that if the war be now further persisted in by the rebels, confiscated property shall, at the least, bear the additional cost; and that confiscations shall be remitted to the people of any State which will now promptly, and in good faith, withdraw its troops and other support, from resistance to the government. Judge Campbell thought it not impossible that the rebel Legislature of Virginia would do the latter, if permitted; and accordingly, I addressed a private letter to Gen. Weitzel (with permission for Judge Campbell to see it) telling him, Gen. W. that if they attempt this, to permit and protect them, unless they attempt something hostile to the United States, in which case to give them notice and time to leave, and to arrest any remaining after such time. I do not think it very probable that anything will come of this; but I have thought best to notify you, so that if you should see signs, you may understand them. From your recent despatches it seems that you are pretty effectually withdrawing the Virginia troops from opposition to the government. Nothing I have done, or probably shall do, is to delay, hinder, or interfere with you in your work. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Godfrey Weitzel
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, Major General Weitzel City-Point, Richmond, Va. April 6, 1865
It has been intimated to me that the gentlemen who have acted as the Legislature of Virginia, in support of the rebellion, may now now [ sic ] desire to assemble at Richmond, and take measures to withdraw the Virginia troops, and other support from resistance to the General government. If they attempt it, give them permission and protection, until, if at all, they attempt some action hostile to the United States, in which case you will notify them and give them reasonable time to leave; & at the end of which time, arrest any who may remain. Allow Judge Campbell to see this, but do not make it public. Yours &c. A. LINCOLN.

To Edwin M. Stanton
City Point, April 7, 1865---8.35 a.m.
Hon. Secretary of War: At 11.15 p.m. yesterday, at Burkeville Station, General Grant sends me the following from General Sheridan. A. LINCOLN. April 6. Lieutenant-General Grant: I have the honor to report that the enemy made a stand at the intersection of the Burke's Station road with the road upon which they were retreating. I attacked them with two divisions of the Sixth Army Corps and routed them handsomely, making a connection with the cavalry. I am still pressing on with both cavalry and infantry. Up to the present time we have captured Generals Ewell, Kershaw, Barton, Corse, DuBose, and Custis Lee,  several thousand prisoners, 14 pieces of artillery with caissons and a large number of wagons. If the thing is pressed I think Lee will surrender. P. H. SHERIDAN, Major-General, Commanding.

To Edwin M. Stanton
City Point, Hon. Secretary of War: April 7, 1865---9 a.m.
The following further just received. A. LINCOLN. A. Lincoln Burkeville The following Telegrams respectfully forwarded for your Information U.S. GRANT Lt Gen 2d ac 7.30 PM 6th Bt Maj Gen A. S. Webb Our last fight just before dark at Sailors Creek gave us two (2) guns 3 flags considerable number of prisoners 200 wagons 70 ambulances with mules & horses to about one half the wagons & ambulances. There are between 30 & 50 wagons in addition abandoned & destroyed along the road some batty wagons forges [?] & limbers I have already reported to you the capture 1 gun 2 flags & some prisoners & the fact that the Road for over 2 miles is strewed with tents baggage cooking utensils some ammunition some material of all kinds the wagons [are] across the approach to the bridge & it will take some time to clear it The Enemy is in position on the heigth beyond, with 6 artillery the bridge partially destroyed & the approaches on other side are of soft bottom land We cannot advance tomorrow in the same manner we have today. as soon as I get my troops up a little we are considerably mixed I might push a column down the road & deploy it but [it] is Evident that I cannot follow rapidly during the night A A HUMPHREYS Maj Gen Meades Hd Qrs 10 P.M Apl 6 Lt Gen Grant At daylight this morning I moved the 2d 5 & 6th Corps along the R R in the direction of Amelia C.H soon after moving reliable Intelligence was received that the Enemy was moving toward Farmville [and] the direction [of] the 2d & 5th Corps was immedidiately changed from a northerly to a north westerly direction the directing Corps the 2d moving on Deatonville & the 5th hertofore in the centre moved on the right of the 2d & the 6th facing about and moving by the left flank taking position on left of the 2d it was understood the Cavalry would operate on the extreme left the changes were promptly made the 2d corps soon becoming engaged with the Enemy near Deatonville driving him by night across sailor Creek to the appomatox the 5th corps made a long march but its position prevented its striking the Enemys column before it had passed. The 6th Corps came up with the Enemy about 4 PM & in conjunction with the 2d on its right & cavalry on its left attacked & routed the Enemy Capturing many prisoners among the [m] Lt Gen Ewell & Gen Custis Lee. I transmit dispatch[es] both from Gen Humphreys & Wright which in justice to these distinguished officers & the gallant Corps they command I beg may be sent to the War Dept for immediate publication. it is impossible at this moment to give any estimate in [of] the casualties in either side or of the number of prisoners taken but it is evident todays  FOOTNOTES}>(2) works is going to be one of the most important of the recent brilliant operations The pursuit will be continued so soon as the men have a little rest [Charles] Griffin with 5th Corps will be moved by the left & Wright & Humphreys continue the direct pursuit as long as it promises success GEO. G. MEADE Maj Gen Hd Qrs 6th 10 PM Apl 6 Maj Gen Webb In pursuance with instruction of this morning from Maj Gen Meade I moved via Jetersville by the shortest practicable road to the left of Deatonville with the object of there taking position on left of the 2d Corps striking the road running from Deatonsville to Burkes Station at a point a little to the south ward of the former place. I found that the 2d Corps was engaged to the front & right & the Cavalry heavily to my left moving down the road towards Burks Station perhaps a mile & turning sharp to right I proceeded across toward a nearly paralel road on which the Enemy was moving & along which he had thrown up a line of entrenchments as soon as the leading Division Gen [Truman] Seymours could be formed it was moved upon the road held by the Enemy which was carried then turning to the left it was advanced down the road against a pretty strong resistance by this time [Frank] Wheatons Division was put in position as rapidly as possible on Seymours left the lines were again advanced & we swept down the road for a distance of about 2 miles arriving at a Deep & difficult creek we found the Enemy had reformed his line on the opposite side where we attacked & drove him to a point a distance of a half mile further In the 1st attack a portion of the Cavalry operated on our right flank in its subsequent attacks the mass of cavalry operated on our left & right flank of the Enemy. The result has been a complete success. The combined forces captured 5 General officers among them Gen Ewell & Custis Lee & large numbers of other prisoners I shall go in camp about 2 miles beyond this point & await instructions the 1st & 3d Divisions Wheatons & Seymours & the artillery Engaged today behaved splendidly a return of casualties will be forwarded as soon as possible The Corps has nobly sustained the reputation it earned on the 2d inst as well as upon its many previous hard fought battle fields H G. WRIGHT M.G.

To Ulysses S. Grant
Head Quarters Armies of the United States, City-Point, Lieut Gen. Grant. April 7. 11 AM. 1865
Gen. Sheridan says ``If the thing is pressed I think that Lee will surrender.'' Let the thing be pressed. A. LINCOLN

To Francis H. Peirpoint
Gov. Pierpoint Executive Mansion Alexandria, Va. Washington, April 10. 1865
Please come up and see me at once. A. LINCOLN

Response to Serenade
April 10, 1865
``FELLOW CITIZENS: I am very greatly rejoiced to find that an occasion has occurred so pleasurable that the people cannot restrain themselves. [Cheers.] I suppose that arrangements are being made for some sort of a formal demonstration, this, or perhaps, to-morrow night. [Cries of `We can't wait,' `We want it now,' &c.] If there should be such a demonstration, I, of course, will be called upon to respond, and I shall have nothing to say if you dribble it all out of me before. [Laughter and applause.] I see you have a band of music with you. [Voices, `We have two or three.'] I propose closing up this interview by the band performing a particular tune which I will name. Before this is done, however, I wish to mention one or two little circumstances connected with it. I have always thought `Dixie' one of the best tunes I have ever heard. Our adversaries over the way attempted to appropriate it, but I insisted yesterday that we fairly captured it. [Applause.] I presented the question to the Attorney General, and he gave it as his legal opinion that it is our lawful prize. [Laughter and applause.] I now request the band to favor me with its performance.''

Response to Serenade
April 10, 1865
MY FRIENDS: I am informed that you have assembled here this afternoon under the impression that I had made an appointment to speak at this time. This is a mistake. I have made no such appointment. More or less persons have been gathering here at different times during the day, and in the exuberance of their feeling, and for all of which they are greatly justified, calling upon me to say something; and I have, from time to time, been sending out what I supposed was proper to disperse them for the present. [Laughter and applause.] I said to a larger audience this morning what I desire now to repeat. It is this: That I supposed in consequence of the glorious news we have been receiving lately, there is to be some general demonstration, either on this or to-morrow evening, when I will be expected, I presume, to say something. Just here I will remark that I would much prefer having this demonstration take place to-morrow evening, as I would then be much better prepared to say what I have to say than I am now or can be this evening. [A voice---``And we will then have heard from Johnston.''] I therefore say to you that I shall be quite willing, and I hope ready, to say something then; whereas just now I am not ready to say anything that one in my position ought to say. Everything I say, you know, goes into print. [Laughter and applause.] If I make a mistake it doesn't merely affect me nor you but the country. I, therefore, ought at least try not to make mistakes. [Voices---``You have made no mistakes yet.''] If, then, a general demonstration be made to-morrow evening, and it is agreeable, I will endeavor to say something, and not make a mistake, without at least trying carefully to avoid it. [Laughter and applause.] Thanking you for the compliment of this call, I bid you good evening.

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Sec. of War. Tad wants some flags. Can he be accommodated. April 10. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Gideon Welles
[April 10, 1865?]
Let Master Tad have a Navy sword. A. LINCOLN

To George H. Gordon
Brig. Gen. G. H. Gordon Executive Mansion, Norfolk, Va. Washington, April 11. 1865
Send to me at once a full statement as to the cause or causes for which, and by authority of what tribunal, George W. Lane,  Charles Whitlock, Ezra Baker, J. M. Renshaw, & others, are restrained of their liberty. Do this promptly & fully. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Ward H. Lamon

Allow the bearer, W. H. Lamon & friend, with ordinary baggage to pass from Washington to Richmond and return. April 11. 1865 A. LINCOLN

Proclamation Concerning Blockade
April 11, 1865
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, by my Proclamations of the nineteenth and twenty seventh days of April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, the ports of the United States in the States of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas, were declared to be subject to blockade; but whereas the said blockade has, in consequence of actual military occupation by this Government, since been conditionally set aside or relaxed in respect to the ports of Norfolk and Alexandria, in the State of Virginia, Beaufort in the State of North Carolina, Port Royal in the State of South Carolina, Pensacola and Fernandina in the State of Florida, and New Orleans in the State of Louisiana: And, whereas, by the fourth section of the Act of Congress approved on the thirteenth of July eighteen hundred and sixty one, entitled ``An act further to provide for the collection of duties on imports and for other purposes,'' the President, for the reasons therein set forth, is authorized to close certain ports of entry; Now, therefore, be it known, that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby proclaim that the ports of Richmond, Tappahannock, Cherrystone, Yorktown and Petersburg in Virginia; of Camden, (Elizabeth City,) Edenton, Plymouth, Washington, Newbern, Ocracoke and Wilmington, in North Carolina; of Charleston, Georgetown and Beaufort in South Carolina; of Savannah, St. Mary's and Brunswick, (Darien) in Georgia; of Mobile in Alabama; of Pearl River, (Shieldsborough,) Natchez and Vicksburg in Mississippi; of St. Augustine, Key West, St. Marks, (Port Leon,) St. John's, (Jacksonville,) and Apalachicola, in Florida; of Tech, (Franklin) in Louisiana; of Galveston, La Salle, Brazos de Santiago, (Point Isabel,) and Brownsville, in Texas, are hereby closed, and all right of importation, warehousing, and other privileges shall, in respect to the ports aforesaid, cease until they shall have again been opened by order of the President; and if, while said ports are so closed, any ship or vessel from beyond the United States or having on board any articles subject to duties, shall attempt to enter any such port, the same, together with its tackle, apparel, furniture and cargo, shall be forfeited to the United States. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington, this eleventh day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H SEWARD Secretary of State.

Proclamation Modifying Blockade of Key West, Florida
April 11, 1865
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, by my Proclamation of this date, the port of Key West, in the State of Florida, was inadvertently included among those which are not open to commerce: Now, therefore, be it known that I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby declare and make known that the said port of Key West is and shall remain open to foreign and domestic commerce upon the same conditions by which that commerce has there hitherto been governed. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington this eleventh day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty ninth. By the President: ABRAHAM LINCOLN WILLIAM H SEWARD Secretary of State.

Proclamation Concerning Foreign Port Privileges
April 11, 1865
By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, for some time past, vessels of war of the United States have been refused in certain foreign ports, privileges and immunities to which they were entitled by treaty, public law or the comity of nations, at the same time that vessels of war of the country wherein the said privileges and immunities have been withheld have enjoyed them fully and uninterruptedly in ports of the United States; which condition of things has not always been forcibly resisted by the United States, although, on the other hand, they have not at any time failed to protest against and declare their dissatisfaction with the same. In the view of the United States no condition any longer exists which can be claimed to justify the denial to them by any one of such nations of customary naval rights, as has heretofore been so unnecessarily persisted in: Now, therefore, I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States, do hereby make known that, if after a reasonable time shall have elapsed for intelligence of this Proclamation to have reached any foreign country in whose ports the said privileges and immunities shall have been refused as aforesaid, they shall continue to be so refused, then and thenceforth the same privileges and immunities shall be refused to the vessels of war of that country in the ports of the United States, and this refusal shall continue until war vessels of the United States, shall have been placed upon an entire equality in the foreign ports aforesaid with similar vessels of other countries---the United States, whatever claim or pretence may have existed heretofore, are now, at least, entitled to claim and concede an entire and friendly equality of rights and hospitalities with all maritime nations. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. [L.S.] Done at the City of Washington this eleventh day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the eighty-ninth. ABRAHAM LINCOLN By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.

To James Speed

Pardon & send to tribe. A. LINCOLN April 11. 1865

Last Public Address
April 11, 1865
We meet this evening, not in sorrow, but in gladness of heart. The evacuation of Petersburg and Richmond, and the surrender of the principal insurgent army, give hope of a righteous and speedy peace whose joyous expression can not be restrained. In the midst of this, however, He, from Whom all blessings flow, must not be forgotten. A call for a national thanksgiving is being prepared, and will be duly promulgated. Nor must those whose harder part gives us the cause of rejoicing, be overlooked. Their honors must not be parcelled out with others. I myself, was near the front, and had the high pleasure of transmitting much of the good news to you; but no part of the honor, for plan or execution, is mine. To Gen. Grant, his skilful officers, and brave men, all belongs. The gallant Navy stood ready, but was not in reach to take active part. By these recent successes the re-inauguration of the national authority---reconstruction---which has had a large share of thought from the first, is pressed much more closely upon our attention. It is fraught with great difficulty. Unlike the case of a war between independent nations, there is no authorized organ for us to treat with. No one man has authority to give up the rebellion for any other man. We simply must begin with, and mould from, disorganized and discordant elements. Nor is it a small additional embarrassment that we, the loyal people, differ among ourselves as to the mode, manner, and means of reconstruction. As a general rule, I abstain from reading the reports of attacks upon myself, wishing not to be provoked by that to which I can not properly offer an answer. In spite of this precaution, however, it comes to my knowledge that I am much censured for some supposed agency in setting up, and seeking to sustain, the new State Government of Louisiana. In this I have done just so much as, and no more than, the public knows. In the Annual Message of Dec. 1863 and accompanying Proclamation, I presented a plan of re-construction (as the phrase goes) which, I promised, if adopted by any State, should be acceptable to, and sustained by, the Executive government of the nation. I distinctly stated that this was not the only plan which might possibly be acceptable; and I also distinctly protested that the Executive claimed no right to say when, or whether members should be admitted to seats in Congress from such States. This plan was, in advance, submitted to the then Cabinet, and distinctly approved by every member of it. One of them suggested that I should then, and in that connection, apply the Emancipation Proclamation to the theretofore excepted parts of Virginia and Louisiana; that I should drop the suggestion about apprenticeship for freed-people, and that I should omit the protest against my own power, in regard to the admission of members to Congress; but even he approved every part and parcel of the plan which has since been employed or touched by the action of Louisiana. The new constitution of Louisiana, declaring emancipation for the whole State, practically applies the Proclamation to the part previously excepted. It does not adopt apprenticeship for freed-people; and it is silent, as it could not well be otherwise, about the admission of members to Congress. So that, as it applies to Louisiana, every member of the Cabinet fully approved the plan. The Message went to Congress, and I received many commendations of the plan, written and verbal; and not a single objection to it, from any professed emancipationist, came to my knowledge, until after the news reached Washington that the people of Louisiana had begun to move in accordance with it. From about July 1862, I had corresponded with different persons, supposed to be interested, seeking a reconstruction of a State government for Louisiana. When the Message of 1863, with the plan before mentioned, reached New-Orleans, Gen. Banks wrote me that he was confident the people, with his military co-operation, would reconstruct, substantially on that plan. I wrote him, and some of them to try it; they tried it, and the result is known. Such only has been my agency in getting up the Louisiana government. As to sustaining it, my promise is out, as before stated. But, as bad promises are better broken than kept, I shall treat this as a bad promise, and break it, whenever I shall be convinced that keeping it is adverse to the public interest. But I have not yet been so convinced. I have been shown a letter on this subject, supposed to be an able one, in which the writer expresses regret that my mind has not seemed to be definitely fixed on the question whether the seceded States, so called, are in the Union or out of it. It would perhaps, add astonishment to his regret, were he to learn that since I have found professed Union men endeavoring to make that question, I have purposely forborne any public expression upon it. As appears to me that question has not been, nor yet is, a practically material one, and that any discussion of it, while it thus remains practically immaterial, could have no effect other than the mischievous one of dividing our friends. As yet, whatever it may hereafter become, that question is bad, as the basis of a controversy, and good for nothing at all---a merely pernicious abstraction. We all agree that the seceded States, so called, are out of their proper practical relation with the Union; and that the sole object of the government, civil and military, in regard to those States is to again get them into that proper practical relation. I believe it is not only possible, but in fact, easier, to do this, without deciding, or even considering, whether these states have even been out of the Union, than with it. Finding themselves safely at home, it would be utterly immaterial whether they had ever been abroad. Let us all join in doing the acts necessary to restoring the proper practical relations between these states and the Union; and each forever after, innocently indulge his own opinion whether, in doing the acts, he brought the States from without, into the Union, or only gave them proper assistance, they never having been out of it. The amount of constituency, so to to [ sic ] speak, on which the new Louisiana government rests, would be more satisfactory to all, if it contained fifty, thirty, or even twenty thousand, instead of only about twelve thousand, as it does. It is also unsatisfactory to some that the elective franchise is not given to the colored man. I would myself prefer that it were now conferred on the very intelligent, and on those who serve our cause as soldiers. Still the question is not whether the Louisiana government, as it stands, is quite all that is desirable. The question is ``Will it be wiser to take it as it is, and help to improve it; or to reject, and disperse it?'' ``Can Louisiana be brought into proper practical relation with the Union sooner by sustaining , or by discarding her new State Government?'' Some twelve thousand voters in the heretofore slave-state of Louisiana have sworn allegiance to the Union, assumed to be the rightful political power of the State, held elections, organized a State government, adopted a free-state constitution, giving the benefit of public schools equally to black and white, and empowering the Legislature to confer the elective franchise upon the colored man. Their Legislature has already voted to ratify the constitutional amendment recently passed by Congress, abolishing slavery throughout the nation. These twelve thousand persons are thus fully committed to the Union, and to perpetual freedom in the state---committed to the very things, and nearly all the things the nation wants---and they ask the nations recognition, and it's assistance to make good their committal. Now, if we reject, and spurn them, we do our utmost to disorganize and disperse them. We in effect say to the white men ``You are worthless, or worse---we will neither help you, nor be helped by you.'' To the blacks we say ``This cup of liberty which these, your old masters, hold to your lips, we will dash from you, and leave you to the chances of gathering the spilled and scattered contents in some vague and undefined when, where, and how.'' If this course, discouraging and paralyzing both white and black, has any tendency to bring Louisiana into proper practical relations with the Union, I have, so far, been unable to perceive it. If, on the contrary, we recognize, and sustain the new government of Louisiana the converse of all this is made true. We encourage the hearts, and nerve the arms of the twelve thousand to adhere to their work, and argue for it, and proselyte for it, and fight for it, and feed it, and grow it, and ripen it to a complete success. The colored man too, in seeing all united for him, is inspired with vigilance, and energy, and daring, to the same end. Grant that he desires the elective franchise, will he not attain it sooner by saving the already advanced steps toward it, than by running backward over them? Concede that the new government of Louisiana is only to what it should be as the egg is to the fowl, we shall sooner have the fowl by hatching the egg than by smashing it? Again, if we reject Louisiana, we also reject one vote in favor of the proposed amendment to the national constitution. To meet this proposition, it has been argued that no more than three fourths of those States which have not attempted secession are necessary to validly ratify the amendment. I do not commit myself against this, further than to say that such a ratification would be questionable, and sure to be persistently questioned; while a ratification by three fourths of all the States would be unquestioned and unquestionable. I repeat the question. ``Can Louisiana be brought into proper practical relation with the Union sooner by sustaining or by discarding her new State Government? What has been said of Louisiana will apply generally to other States. And yet so great peculiarities pertain to each state; and such important and sudden changes occur in the same state; and, withal, so new and unprecedented is the whole case, that no exclusive, and inflexible plan can safely be prescribed as to details and colatterals. Such exclusive, and inflexible plan, would surely become a new entanglement. Important principles may, and must, be inflexible. In the present `` situation '' as the phrase goes, it may be my duty to make some new announcement to the people of the South. I am considering, and shall not fail to act, when satisfied that action will be proper.

To Joseph Holt

Let the Prisoner be pardoned and returned to his Regiment. April 12. 1865 A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

I would be glad, if convenient, for Isaac G. Wilson of Ills. to be an Examiner at West-Point. A. LINCOLN April 12. 1865.

To Godfrey Weitzel
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Weitzel War Department, Richmond, Va. Washington, D.C., April 12. 1865
I have seen your despatch to Col. Hardie about the matter of prayers. I do not remember hearing prayers spoken of while I was in Richmond; but I have no doubt you have acted in what appeared to you to be the spirit and temper manifested by me while there. Is there any sign of the rebel Legislature coming together on the understanding of my letter to you? If there is any such sign, inform me what it is; if there is no such sign you may as [well] withdraw the offer. A. LINCOLN

To Godfrey Weitzel
`` Cypher '' Office U.S. Military Telegraph, Major General Weitzel War Department, Richmond, Va Washington, D.C., April 12. 1865
I have just seen Judge Campbell's letter to you of the 7th. He assumes as appears to me that I have called the insurgent Legislature of Virginia together, as the rightful Legislature of the State, to settle all differences with the United States. I have done no such thing. I spoke of them not as a Legislature, but as ``the gentlemen who have acted as the Legislature of Virginia in support of the rebellion.'' I did this on purpose to exclude the assumption that I was recognizing them as a rightful body. I dealt with them as men having power de facto to do a specific thing, towit, ``to withdraw the Virginia troops, and other support from resistance to the General Government,'' for which in the paper handed Judge Campbell I promised a specific equivalent, to wit, a remission to the people of the State, except in certain cases, the confiscation of their property. I meant this and no more. In as much however as Judge Campbell misconstrues this, and is still pressing for an armistice, contrary to the explicit statement of the paper I gave him; and particularly as Gen. Grant has since captured the Virginia troops, so that giving a consideration for their withdrawal is no longer applicable, let my letter to you, and the paper to Judge Campbell both be withdrawn or, counter-manded, and he be notified of it. Do not now allow them to assemble; but if any have come, allow them safe-return to their homes. A. LINCOLN

To Hugh McCulloch
Hon. Sec. of the Treasury, Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, April 13, 1865.
The office of Collector of Internal Revenue for the 5th. Collection District of California is vacant by the resignation of Charles Maltby. I would like to oblige Gen. Schenck by the appointment of his nephew, William C. S. Smith, long a resident of the District, to fill the vacancy. I am satisfied that he is competent, and of good character; and that his appointment will be satisfactory in the district & State. Unless you know some valid objection, send me an appointment for him. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

Memorandum Respecting Reduction of the Regular Army
[c. April 13, 1865?]
At the close of the last British war,---in 1815---the Regular army was reduced and fixed at 14,000, which was about one soldier to 602 souls. In 1821 the army was again reduced to 10,000, which was about one soldier to 963 souls. It is proposed that at the end of this struggle, the Regular Army shall be reduced to, and fixed at, one soldier to 1000 souls---the reduction to be in the regiments now created, all privates, thus discharged, to receive half pay from their discharge to the end of their several terms of enlistment; all officers thus discharged, who were taken from civil life, to receive one years full pay after discharge; and all who were taken from the old regular Army, to receive pay for life, according to their several ranks, at the time of their discharge, and without promotion, Congress to provide a mode of designating what officers, and what privates, are to be discharged at the time of the reduction.

Pass for A. B. Darling

Allow the bearer, A. B. Darling, to pass to, and visit Mobile, if, and when the city shall be in our possession. A. LINCOLN April 13, 1865.

Pass for G. T. Jenkins and J. M. Hiatt

Allow the bearers, G. T. Jenkins & J. M. Hiatt, with ordinary baggage, to pass our lines into Virginia & return. April 13. 1865. A. LINCOLN

Pass for Robert C. Schenck

And to Richmond if he chooses. A. LINCOLN April 13. 1865.

Pass for James W. Singleton

Allow Gen. Singleton to pass to Richmond & return April 13, 1865 A. LINCOLN

To James Speed
Attorney General Executive Mansion, Dear Sir. Washington, April 13. 1865
Send me a Commission for William Kellogg, to be Judge in Nebraska in place of W. P. Kellogg resigned. Yours truly A LINCOLN

Concerning Passes to Richmond
[April 14, 1865?]
No pass is necessary now to authorize any one to go to & return from Petersburg & Richmond. People go & return just as they did before the war. A LINCOLN

To William P. Dole
Commissioner of Indian Affairs. Executive Mansion, My dear Sir Washington, April 14. 1865
Please do not send off the commission of W. T. Howell, as Indian agent in Michigan, until the return of Mr. Harlan, and hearing from me again. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To Ulysses S. Grant
Executive Mansion, Washington, Lieut. Genl. Grant April 14. 1865
Please call at 11. A.M. to-day instead of 9. as agreed last evening. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

MemorandumConcerning Maryland Appointments

Gov. Swann & Senator Cresswell present the above to-day, which they do on a plan suggested by me. A.L. April 14. 1865.

Order Concerning Thomas Geary

Let Thomas Geary be discharged from the service on refunding any bounty received. A. LINCOLN. April 14, 1865.

Order Concerning Benjamin F. Twilley

Let it be done. A. LINCOLN April 14. 1865

To William H. Seward
Hon. Sec. of State Executive Mansion, Sir: Washington, April 14, 1865.
Please assemble the Cabinet at 11. A.M. to-day. Gen. Grant will meet with us. Yours truly A. LINCOLN

To James Speed

Appoint. A. LINCOLN April 14. 1865

To James Speed

If it is definitely concluded to accept Judge Parks' resignation, as I understand it is, let the within appointment be made April 14. 1865. A. LINCOLN

To Edwin M. Stanton

Hon. Secretary of War, please see and hear Hon. Mr. Rollins, & oblige him if you consistently can. A. LINCOLN April 14. 1865.

To James H. Van Alen
Washington, April 14th, 1865.
My dear Sir: I intend to adopt the advice of my friends and use due precaution. . . . I thank you for the assurance you give me that I shall be supported by conservative men like yourself, in the efforts I may make to restore the Union, so as to make it, to use your language, a Union of hearts and hands as well as of States. Yours truly, A. LINCOLN.

Card of Admission for George Ashmun

Allow Mr. Ashmun & friend to come in at 9. A.M. to-morrow. April 14. 1865. A. LINCOLN

APPENDIX I
December 15, 1847
To the Honorable, the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled: Your Petitioner, Anson G. Henry, of Pekin, Illinois, respectfully represents that in June 1846 he furnished supplies, transportation &c. to Capt. Edward Jones' company of volunteers, before they were mustered into the service of the United States, to the value of that his claim has been submitted to, and finally disallowed, by the accounting officers of the Government, except as to the sum of which has been allowed & paid Your Petitioner herewith presents what he hopes will be deemed ample evidence of the justice of his claim; and respectfully prays that the unpaid ballance of the same be allowed him; and as in duty bound &c. Decr. 15. 1847 A. G. HENRY.  ADS, DNA RG 233, HR 30 AF 3 (7). This petition, entirely in Lincoln's autograph, is endorsed by a clerk: ``Decr 20 1847. Referred to the Committee of Claims/Feby 29 1848 Bill 246.'' On the latter date, H.R. 246, ``for the relief of Dr. A. G. Henry of Illinois,'' was ``read the first and second time'' and passed ( House Journal ). In the Senate, H.R. 246 was reported from the committee on military affairs without amendment on June 20, but no further action was taken ( Senate Journal ).

APPENDIX II
Springfield, Dear Gillespie--- March 29. 1850
I suppose you are well acquainted at Greenville, and attend court there regularly. There are, at or near that place, two brothers, and a brother-in-law, by the names of Richard Briggs, Henry Briggs, and James Bradford. They have a niece here, a near neighbor of mine, by the name of Stout, formerly Huldah Briggs, who thinks they have wronged her in relation to the estates of her grand-father and grand-mother Briggs---and she is resolved to be righted if possible. I doubt not she confidently believes in the justice of her cause; and she has so far convinced me, that I strongly sympathise with her, and intend to not drop the case till I know more about it. She writes them, and they will not answer her---itself a suspicious circumstance. Now I desire you, as a favor to me, when next you are there, to see them, and tell them of this determination of hers, and notify them to do her justice, either by giving her, her own, or taking the small trouble of convincing her, that they have nothing of hers. Generally, find out all you can, in your own way, about the matter, and write the result to Ebenezer Stout, the lady's husband, at this place. Write him , because I shall be absent on the circuit. The grand-father died in Massachusetts; and the grand-mother in Bond county, whither it is thought she brought effects of her husband, and where she certainly drew a large pension for several years. Whether there was any administration in Bond, of the effects of either, you can readily see. Please attend to this without failure; and I will do as much, with interest, for you, on demand. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN---  ALS, ICHi. See Lincoln's letter to John Tillson, February 15, 1850, supra (II, 73).

ADDITIONS
Springfield, Dear Gillespie--- March 29. 1850
I suppose you are well acquainted at Greenville, and attend court there regularly. There are, at or near that place, two brothers, and a brother-in-law, by the names of Richard Briggs, Henry Briggs, and James Bradford. They have a niece here, a near neighbor of mine, by the name of Stout, formerly Huldah Briggs, who thinks they have wronged her in relation to the estates of her grand-father and grand-mother Briggs---and she is resolved to be righted if possible. I doubt not she confidently believes in the justice of her cause; and she has so far convinced me, that I strongly sympathise with her, and intend to not drop the case till I know more about it. She writes them, and they will not answer her---itself a suspicious circumstance. Now I desire you, as a favor to me, when next you are there, to see them, and tell them of this determination of hers, and notify them to do her justice, either by giving her, her own, or taking the small trouble of convincing her, that they have nothing of hers. Generally, find out all you can, in your own way, about the matter, and write the result to Ebenezer Stout, the lady's husband, at this place. Write him , because I shall be absent on the circuit. The grand-father died in Massachusetts; and the grand-mother in Bond county, whither it is thought she brought effects of her husband, and where she certainly drew a large pension for several years. Whether there was any administration in Bond, of the effects of either, you can readily see. Please attend to this without failure; and I will do as much, with interest, for you, on demand. Yours as ever A. LINCOLN---  ALS, ICHi. See Lincoln's letter to John Tillson, February 15, 1850, supra (II, 73).

